Many recent news reports involving African Australians in Melbourne have been about young men involved in violence and crime.  But the sold-out Accelerating Potential conference, to be held this Saturday, will be attended by young African Australians intent on becoming community leaders and businesspeople. The conference has been organised by the Incubate Foundation, which was formed to connect young people of African background to education and employment opportunities.Co-founder Zione Walker-Nthenda said the foundation had been planning the youth conference since last year. "It just so happens that in the past two months there has been a stream of negative media representation [of African Australian youth]," she told 774 ABC Melbourne's Jon Faine."That has actually made this conference come more alive and become particularly topical." While the brawl at this year's Moomba Festival focused Melbourne media's attention on disengaged African Australian youth, Ms Walker-Nthenda said this weekend's conference "wasn't really formed to tackle the current conversation"."The conference was really a platform for young people to tell us what was important to them," she said. The day-long conference will include sessions on personal well-being, running a business and becoming a "changemaker".  "We have a youth speech competition where we've got at least 10 young people who have been selected to talk on a whole range of issues," Ms Walker-Nthenda said. The conference is just the latest event held by the foundation. In March, Orange Is The New Black star Uzo Aduba contacted the foundation while visiting Australia.Ms Walker-Nthenda said within two days Incubate had organised a forum where the actress spoke to a crowd of more than 70 people.   Some of the foundation's events have led directly to young African Australians being given opportunities they might not have otherwise had access to. "The other day we had a legal series where we wanted to connect 25 young African law students to employment pathways," Ms Walker-Nthenda said. The event featured a panel of judges, QCs and other legal professionals. "One of the QCs was so impressed with the young people he then connected all of the final year students to the Victorian bar for mentoring," Ms Walker-Nthenda said. 
Topics:
youth,


	
	race-relations,


	
	community-organisations,


	
	human-interest,


	
	melbourne-3000
