When the "African gangs" narrative ramped up in Australian media earlier this year, Irene Bakulikira was forced to modify her behaviour."Obviously everywhere you go, you're African so you have to be very, very careful. I've never had to be careful in my whole life but I am now because of what it is going on," she said.Bakulikira, whose background is Congolese, said that when she visits stores she now feels "under surveillance" and keeps receipts with her, even for the smallest purchases. She said her mother has been accused of stealing at a shopping centre, unfairly targeted because of her race. But when Bakulikira gets on stage and plays Antigone, she doesn't have to be so careful."When I get to perform I'm free to speak my own mind, to speak of what is happening — and people can open their ears to listen, and they can also open their eyes to see."Antigone is about a young woman determined to recover the body of her rebellious brother from the battlefield, despite an edict by the city's ruler saying that the body must remain unburied, in disgrace.The Thebes-set tragedy, written by Greek playwright Sophocles around 442 BCE, is a tale of personal ethics versus the state; family loyalty and moral decency, versus 'the law'.Bakulikira and other cast members worked with Western Edge Youth Arts in Melbourne's west to develop a version of the 2,500-thousand-year-old Greek play that speaks to them. The group has performed Antigone in schools in Melbourne's west since May, and last Friday they performed at Geelong's Courthouse Youth Arts Centre. This new version of Antigone is set in Thebes, but resonates with contemporary Victoria — where race, politics and the notion of "African gangs" collide.For some cast members the play was an educational experience — but for others, including Bakulikira, it became a rare outlet for long-festering feelings.Western Edge's new version of the play opens with a Greek chorus, chanting: "Thebes, a modern state. Creon is the President. This is a time of unrest; the government is unpopular. They need someone to blame: people who are less than fully Theban, people who look different, people who can be made the other."In this version of Antigone, her brother (Polynices) is a young African activist, shot dead by the police. President Creon turns to racial vilification to try and drum up public support. Antigone finds herself at odds with her President and his son Haemon — who also happens to be her fiance. The words are fiction and the plot a touch melodramatic — but this production is a very real response to the media narrative around "African gangs".That narrative is thought to have started with coverage of Melbourne's Apex gang, in 2015, but a series of crimes in December 2017, committed by people with African heritage, reignited the theme — and popularised the catchcry "African gangs".Just last week, Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton told Sydney radio station 2GB that Victoria needed to deal with its "African gangs", saying that "you have large numbers of these gangs gathering, it's going to result in very serious outcomes or death".But many members of Australia's African community, and in fact the Victorian police, have disputed the "African gangs" characterisation.  Craig Gunguta, who plays Polynices, grew up in Zimbabwe. He says the media doesn't "understand how that [coverage] affects us as African youth"."Me and my friends, we're walking in the street now [and] we get asked where we're going at train stations, by the police and all that, all because of somebody choosing to say things about us and victimising our community," he said."We are such a minority, there's not that much of us. So if you make people hate us, it's not safe for us," Gunguta said.Western Edge has helped him channel some of the fear, pain and anger into this play."[When] my character gets shot it's like I feel it in myself, I felt the anger that I can see my character go through," Gunguta said."As a minority people in this country, and young people ... our voices are not heard that much out there," Gunguta said.He feels that the Western Edge production is "giving voice to the voiceless". Congolese-born Eto Masoka, who plays Antigone's sister Ismene, can relate to feeling voiceless. She says that as an African-Australian, "sometimes you feel scared: if I say this, what are people going to think? ... You kind of have to hold your words back.""I love the fact that [in the theatre] you're free to express whatever you're feeling. You can say whatever you feel is right."At one point in the play, her character says: "We're just people like anybody else, we have our way of doing things".Western Edge Youth Arts focuses on mentoring and training culturally and linguistically diverse young artists to become cultural leaders. But it's open to all young people in the community. While the experiences explored in their adaptation of Antigone resonated for Bakulikira, Gunguta and Masoka, others in the cast found themselves in unfamiliar territory."We didn't really talk about culture and race when I was younger," said Finn Lloyd, who plays Creon."Throughout all of Australian history there's always been a group that's blamed for everything, and that's never been me obviously — so I never really thought about how that would affect people."But this [production] shows that there are things that immigrants go through that I wouldn't have been able to imagine. So it's a very educational experience."  In the development of plays at Western Edge, the cast "get to know each other in a much deeper way — both personally and culturally," artistic director Dave Kelman said."We go well below the skin of multiculturalism, and I think that's a beautiful thing to see."Lloyd can attest to that: "I certainly learnt more about other people's cultures than I would otherwise," he said.And that education goes both ways."We create this bond together and we're able to understand each other's culture and get to learn from each other," Bakulikira said. "[The cast have] pretty much become a family."  Western Edge's reinterpreted Antigone suggests that maybe it's not a racial divide that needs to be crossed, but a generational one.Through his relationship with Antigone, the young Haemon begins to comprehend what it might be like to live in her skin.Gunguta believes younger Australians who have grown up around people with African heritage are more understanding. "[The people who] went to school with us and got to actually spend time with us in class, they understand us and we understand them," Gunguta said. "We need to get the oldies and youngies together and get to know what makes us human."
Topics:
arts-and-entertainment,


	
	theatre,


	
	community-and-society,


	
	immigration,


	
	multiculturalism,


	
	crime,


	
	melbourne-3000,


	
	vic,


	
	geelong-3220
