Who are the African youths behind summer's provocative headlines? We spent 10 days with the South Sudanese community in Melbourne to find out.South Sudanese-born Kuon Gido was behind the wheel of a stolen BMW full of teens when he lost control on Melbourne's West Gate Bridge.His cousin was badly injured when she was thrown from the car."I don't know how to explain it," Kuon said."I was young, with all the boys, kicking back, trying to help each other out. When we got into trouble, we didn't see it as a big thing, you know?"As a sign of his lost innocence, the 18-year-old can't remember what he wanted to be when he grew up."I don't know. When my parents split up, I was a really angry kid. I was just adapting, you know?"He says his parents' split was the source of his anger, together with the feeling he was different from everyone else — an outsider here in Australia.Understanding Kuon's story is the key to understanding this summer's heated debate about African-Australian youth crime: the push factors are disadvantage, education, employment and cultural clashes.  Ethiopian-born Ashraf Mohamed, 18, is experiencing those push factors.He's a vulnerable young man in a crisis situation who could be susceptible to choosing the wrong path, as Kuon did. Ashraf, who dreams of being a pilot, says he and his sister were thrown out of a relative's home because of a lack of space. A social worker found them temporary accommodation in a motel."Being 18 and going into year 12 is a big responsibility," Ashraf said."I was thinking of dropping out because of the situation I'm in right now. I don't think I'm going to be able to make it through this year."It's best for me to drop out and just apply for jobs."Life makes you angry." African-born parents in Australia are struggling to control their children.South Sudanese parents told me this when I was invited into their homes, shared a meal with them — men eat before women in South Sudanese culture — and spoke with their sons, who have found themselves in trouble with the law, in youth justice or even in detention awaiting deportation.Nearly all the mothers had low English and education levels. Many were single mothers or had broken family units. They often carried psychological scars from their own refugee experience.The mothers' desire to discipline their children physically clashes with liberal Australian parenting views. They blamed social services for giving their wayward, runaway children housing and assistance to hang out with their friends and "do the naughty stuff", rather than face discipline in the home."In the [refugee] camp, we didn't need to worry because there was a gate," one South Sudanese mother told me. "Here, there's no gate."One community leader said: "We came here for freedom, but this is too much freedom."The young South Sudanese people I talked with said their community leaders were out of touch with the youth, that the cultural traditionalism of Africa was not adapting to contemporary Australian values.They said the older generation was holding on to old-country feuds, whereas their children happily hang out with kids from other tribes or African backgrounds.By no means is this the entire South Sudanese experience in Australia, but it goes some way to giving context to the events and attention-grabbing headlines. Jamali Musa, a Somali-born 21-year-old, dreamed of being a soccer player as a little boy, "one of the big stars".He pleaded guilty to his role in a wild axe brawl in a Footscray barber shop last June, which he says started after a petty teen drama — the kind young men the world over use as an excuse to fight."Everything just happened too quickly and now I'm just going to have to face it," he told me.Jamali is an orphan. He lives with his grandmother and is still adapting to life in Australia. With few prospects for work to occupy himself, he's had to learn the hard way what's wrong and right."Things would have been different. But with no role models, no-one leading you, no-one holding your hand telling you, 'This is not the right thing, this is the bad thing' … every little kid wants to have fun but sometimes they don't know the limit." John Kuot is the kind of young South Sudanese man who doesn't make the news; he's not wanted for crime, nor famous for sport. He's a 27-year-old MBA grad running a tech start-up. He's also been shot in the head and almost had his leg was amputated by a machete when he was a boy in Africa."We are a very, very visible minority," he said."Ninety-nine per cent of us contribute in more positive ways than the negative ways, however it seems like the society only wants to push us under the microscope just on the basis of a few."If you look at the crime statistics for the state of Victoria, it really is a few. For the year ending September 2017, people born in Sudan made up 1 per cent of alleged offenders linked to crime. The biggest group of alleged offenders were born in Australia, which made up 71.7 per cent, followed by New Zealand at 2.2 per cent. More importantly, some of the offenders were born in Australia, so they count among the 71.7 per cent."Why do you guys have to refer to us as 'African' when we do something wrong, but when we're doing something great, 'Oh, you guys are fair dinkum Australian?'" John said.
Topics:
crime,


	
	crime-prevention,


	
	community-and-society,


	
	police,


	
	melbourne-3000
