On Maxine Beneba Clarke's first day at preschool, at just four years old, she was singled out for being different."There was a little girl who kind of came straight up to me and said 'You're brown', and there was a definite negativity in her voice … This was obviously a problem for her," Clarke says."It was really the point at which I realised I'm different from a lot of the kids around me, and this is going to be a problem for some kids."This playground confrontation was first recounted in her 2016 memoir The Hate Race, which won a NSW Premier's Literary Award and is now being adapted into a play for Melbourne's Malthouse Theatre. But in Wide Big World, her second children's book after 2016's The Patchwork Bike, Clarke has taken this real life event and spun it into a positive story about celebrating difference.



        Photo:
       Difference is celebrated in Wide Big World. (Supplied: Hachette)
"I grew up in the white picket fence suburbs of New South Wales," Clarke says.She describes her local preschool as "very white, very middle class". But her parents were British migrants who were born in the Caribbean."Up until then [preschool] I'd kind of been at home with my mum, [so I] hadn't really thought very much about the difference between me and other kids," Clarke recalls.But she describes that girl's statement of her otherness — "You're brown" — as "this refrain throughout my time at preschool"."Any time I would do anything that was perceived to be wrong, like take the last piece of fruit at fruit time, she would say, 'You're brown and you're greedy'. There was always something negative attached to it," Clarke says.Clarke's teachers failed to intervene in these racist incidents."These were teachers who had been raised and grown up under the White Australia policy [which ended in 1973], and there was a sense of not wanting to talk about anything [to do with race]," she says."I really didn't ruminate much on my childhood until I was writing a memoir about it and thinking, 'What would it have taken for each situation to have ended differently?'" So Clarke has given her bad memory a different ending.At four years old, she didn't know how to respond to that girl who pointed out her difference. But Belle — the main character in Wide Big World — knows how. She turns around and proudly says: "Yeah, I am", while flashing her bully a smile. "The teacher then really takes a lead role in a conversation, saying, 'well I'm tall and I'm hairy … everybody's different and so let's have a conversation about the different things in this world'," Clarke says.The story then expands out into the natural world, highlighting and celebrating all the different things that make up this "wide big world" — from the "red-hot brilliant" sun to the "cool and clean" rain."I wanted the book to not only be a teaching tool for kids who may not have encountered difference, but to be something empowering for those kids who might be singled out — to [encourage them to] not shy away from that difference," Clarke says."But as with all my work, I also just hope it's a good story." The book is illustrated by artist and animator Isobel Knowles, who also illustrated children's books Lest We Forget, Owl Know How and Too Much for Turtle."She's done a really great job of creating a schoolyard that is very inclusive … [There] are kids from all different backgrounds, kids with disabilities," Clarke says.The diverse schoolyard of Wide Big World is reflective of the kind of multicultural school that Clarke's children (who have grandparents of Caribbean and Irish descent) attend in Melbourne's western suburbs."There are more open conversations happening in the school context these days about difference," she observes. And kids and teachers are actually talking about bullying."So their world looks different to the world I grew up in. But the book still resonated with my youngest child, who's eight," Clarke says.Growing up, Clarke loved young adult fiction like Melina Marchetta's Looking For Alibrandi and Judy Blume's Iggy House, as well as Sally Morgan's autobiography My Place. But she says there weren't many books with diverse characters. "I always loved writing my own stories … [But] I wasn't writing black characters at all, because it just wasn't something I saw. So it wasn't even within my realm of possibility to take myself and make myself a character."When she started studying writing at university, she realised that there was a paucity of African diaspora fiction and nonfiction in Australia."So that's what I started writing. And just that power of realising that you can control your own story, and you can contribute to the national narrative, was kind of addictive. I never stopped." The Hate Race and her 2014 collection of short stories Foreign Soil are on the English syllabus in high schools across the country."To now know that there is a book on the syllabus that I would have loved and seen myself in is quite incredible. I still can't quite believe that happened," Clarke says. Clarke is adding to the African-Australian writing canon in other ways, as the editor of essay anthology Growing Up African in Australia, which counts Candy Bowers, Faustina Agolley and Santilla Chingaipe among its contributors and will be published in April 2019 by Black Inc. Books.Clarke, who is also currently working on a verse novel, says that it "gets easier" to plumb the personal."Writing it [The Hate Race] was quite difficult, because there are a lot of quite painful memories and things that you've forgotten that get dragged up," she says.Since it was published she's had people write to her, including others whose childhoods were marred by racism.There are also the bystanders who have written to her, saying that reading her books "was the first time my mind has gone to what it would have been like for that person who was on the receiving end [of racist bullying]"."That's the moment in which I think 'OK … this is why I'm doing what I'm doing'," Clarke says.One childhood bully actually contacted her to apologise after reading The Hate Race. "I was very immature," she admits. "I said, 'It's fine, I'm famous now', and sat at my computer chuckling. It was kind of that ultimate moment that anyone who's been bullied wishes for."Wide Big World is out now through Hachette. 