More than 400 people have packed out Hobart's Town Hall on Tuesday to discuss the future of the east coast, including the Freycinet Peninsular Master Plan and high-end accommodation projects.There was standing room only at the forum organised by more than a dozen east coast community groups.The proposed Cambria Green Development stretches more than 3,000 hectares and would include a golf course, 70 villas, 240 units and up to 120 hotel rooms, a range of shops and health facilities including palliative care services.Planning Matters Alliance coordinator Sophie Underwood said she had never seen such a "groundswell of discontent" over a development. "There's a whole range of issues in regards to the impacts on the environment and overdevelopment of a really important part of Tasmania," she said."This is prime agricultural land being converted to facilitate a resort. Should we be converting agricultural land to allow for tourism?"She said she had planning concerns about overdevelopment of the site. "We're seeing significant pressure on our national parks and reserves, especially Freycinet," she said. "We're also hearing whispers of other large developments for the coast." East Coast Alliance president Anne Held said the development had divided the community."The lack of transparency and public consultation in this process [has] created a sense of distrust and fear within the community," she said."If the proponents do what they say they want to do from the master plan, that would represent a 200 per cent increase in visitor accommodation in the Swansea and Dolphin Sands area."The East Coast Alliance wants to stop the project getting the planning changes it is currently applying for.Cambria Green Development's planning consultant Irene Duckett urged the community to read the planning scheme amendment. "It contains a lot of specific and detailed provisions that actually protect the things that people are concerned about losing," she said. "For example, in relation to any commercial or retail development on the site, the standards state that anything on the site can't compete with the retail hierarchy within Swansea." She said the development would encourage people to stay in the area during peak tourism season."A lot of people pass through Swansea but they don't actually stop in Swansea," she said."At the peak tourism season, it's very difficult to actually get somewhere to stay in Swansea because the accommodation's all booked up."Tourism Industry Council Tasmania chief executive officer Luke Martin said tourism was the "main game in town" for the region."I think there's an element of concern around the scale of the proposals that have been put up," he said. "We do need investment on the east coast, particularly in tourism. "We shouldn't view all tourism investment in the region through the prism of one particular proposal." Greens leader Cassy O'Connor said Tasmanians were being shut out of the decision making. "So in our private members' time this week, we'll be moving to affirm the priority that should be given to public participation and public appeal rights in any development assessment and decision," she said. "Also, to reject absolutely any move to introduce major projects legislation to Tasmania."She said any legislation would be a "recipe for corruption". "It would give developers the red carpet treatment through to the Minister's office and to have a project assessed outside an independent planning system," she said.Tasmania's Planning Minister Roger Jaensch said the Greens were wrong to claim that developments would be fast-tracked under the proposed major projects legislation."Despite the Greens' misleading assertions, the draft legislation, which is in the process of further refining based on feedback received, still requires that all relevant and necessary approvals including environmental, Aboriginal and heritage approvals must be granted by the relevant regulators," he said."The draft legislation will establish an independent, comprehensive and rigorous assessment process with multiple opportunities for public involvement, and it will not 'fast track' projects or be used to replace the legitimate planning controls.  "This is just another kooky conspiracy theory cooked up by the Greens to try and remain relevant with their base."
Topics:
urban-development-and-planning,


	
	community-and-society,


	
	travel-and-tourism,


	
	swansea-7190,


	
	tas

    First posted 
    
      August 21, 2018 05:23:42
    
