As a student I don't mind squeezing into a tram or train every morning to get to class. What gives me the feeling of being squeezed is that, as an international student I'm paying double what every other student pays for the same dubious pleasure.NSW and Victoria are the only states in Australia that don't offer transport concessions to international students. They're also the two states that, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics host the highest number of international student enrolments; 37 per cent and 30 per cent respectively.Education is the country's third largest export behind coal and iron ore. ABS data shows that international students generated $16.3 billion in export income in 2010-2011.However, numbers are declining. International students are hard hit by the high Aussie dollar. Other than rent and living, paying full fare on transport takes the biggest chunk out of a students living cost.Earlier this year the Herald Sun reported two thirds of 2,000 international students in Victoria would have chosen universities in other states if they knew they would not receive discounted transport.The article also found that 89 per cent of these students wouldn't recommend Victoria to other students because of the absence of transport aid.Premier Ted Baillieu has been constantly criticised about not caring for education. In April he was inundated with online complaints by international students about the lack of student discounts in the state.ABS shows that international students inject $4.5 billion into Victoria's economy. The Government will lose $93 million of this if they provide all students concessions. This isn't a great loss when the decline in international students has cost the state over $1 billion in the last year.Safety is also a concern to students. On April 28 two Chinese students were robbed and violently attacked on a Sydney train. This sparked outrage among the Chinese Australian community and in China where some television stations warned that Australia is not safe for international students.Indian students reported similar acts of violence in 2009 and even stabbings in 2010.Attacks such as these have harmed Australia's reputation as a destination for international students, and students are turning to other options such as the United States. The Australian Government needs to do more to show international students that they are safe and welcome here.In early 2010 a series of attacks against international students prompted a 10-point action plan on student safety. One of the key issues was transport concessions.Universities Australia has released a report supporting travel concessions for international students stating:"Universities Australia strongly believes that travel concessions for full-time students should be extended to international undergraduates and to both domestic and international postgraduate students on a nationally consistent basis."The report found that concessions will help enhance student safety while they move between campuses, workplaces and accommodation.It takes both courage and money to come to a new country alone. The NSW and Victorian governments need to stop using international students as their personal teller machines to prop up their sagging economies. If they continue to fleece students, then sooner, rather than later, the money is going to dry up.