Fortescue Metals (FMG) has seen its interim net profit slump by almost half because of weaker prices and less demand from China for its lower-quality iron ore.The iron ore miner saw its after-tax profit fall by 44 per cent to $US681 ($866) million for the six months to the end of December. That is because the discount for its lower-grade iron ore increased over the half year to 68 per cent of the benchmark iron ore price from 86 per cent earlier in 2017. Revenue and shipments fell because Chinese steel mills used more higher-grade iron ore as Beijing clamped down on pollution. The profit number was better than the market consensus expected by analysts of $US638 ($811) million. New chief executive Elizabeth Gaines, the miner's former chief financial officer, said FMG was continuing to reduce the cost of production at its mines. "Our team has continued to deliver during the first half improving safety, lowering C1 costs to US$12.08 ($15.36) per wet metric tonne in the December quarter and maintaining production in line with our full-year guidance of 170mtpa (million tonnes per annum)," she said.Ms Gaines will be paid a base salary of $1.5 million with short-term and long-term bonuses on top of that. Former boss Nev Power resigned from FMG earlier this week. He was paid $5.7 million in 2017 with a base salary of $2 million. FMG also signed a new finance deal for $US1.4 ($1.78) billion with major Chinese, Australian and European banks, which Ms Gaines said would be used to repay more expensive debt held by the miner."This facility lowers Fortescue's average cost of capital, improves flexibility, strengthens the balance sheet and further develops our strong relationships with China," Ms Gaines told the stock exchange in a statement. She told journalists on a conference call that FMG remained confident the steep price discounts on its iron ore would improve to 70-75 per cent of the benchmark iron ore price once China scaled back steel production cuts imposed over winter. "We anticipate that coming out of the Chinese New Year period, coming out of the winter production cuts that have been mandated, when that will occur on March 15 we expect the level of discounting will improve," she said.Net debt increased from the second half of the 2017 financial year to nearly $US3.3 ($4.20) billion because of one-off items.FMG shares fell by 4.1 per cent or $0.22 to $5.14 at 1:00pm AEDT after investors saw their interim dividend payout cut by $0.09 to $0.11 a share fully franked, which was lower than expected by analysts. Oil and gas producer Santos made an accounting loss for the year after it wrote down the value of its Gladstone liquefied natural gas project in Queensland.The company made a net loss of $US360 ($458) million for 2017. That was worse than expected by analysts, but a significant improvement on the after-tax loss of just over $US1 ($1.27) billion for the previous financial year after another big write-down on the value of the Gladstone LNG plant. As flagged, Santos wrote down the value of Gladstone LNG by $US689 ($876) million after tax in the first half of the financial year. It also wrote down the value of its stake in the undeveloped Ande Ande Lumut project off the coast of Indonesia. LNG and oil sales increased 20 per cent over 2017, with underlying profit jumping fivefold to $US336 ($427) million. Net debt fell by nearly one quarter to $US2.7 ($3.4) billion and Santos did not pay a dividend so it could reduce debt. Santos managing director and chief executive officer Kevin Gallagher said the company's financial performance was a big turnaround. "We have removed substantial costs, reported a material increase in underlying profit, generated significant free cash flow and reduced net debt," he said."Santos is now a stronger, more resilient company, with the capacity to execute and bring on-line growth opportunities across its core long-life natural gas assets."He said the company was considering returning more cash to investors if Santos continued to cut debt ahead of its deadline. Santos shares were down 2.5 per cent or $0.13 to $5.05 at 1:00pm AEDT. 