Dan Tenardi, a former Rio Tinto executive and now managing director of Western Australia's Bauxite, joins Lateline Business to discuss his concerns about China's continued detention of Stern Hu.
      Source: Lateline Business
      |
      Duration: 6min 27secTranscriptTICKY FULLERTON, PRESENTER: The continued detention of Rio Tinto executive Stern Hu by Chinese authorities is creating unease among some Chinese companies who do business with Australia. That's the view of a former Rio Tinto executive and now managing director of Bauxite Resources Limited, a Western Australian company with ambitious plans to develop a major bauxite and alumina export business with China.I spoke to managing director Dan Tenardi from Perth. Dan Tenardi, welcome to Lateline Business.DAN TENARDI, MANAGING DIRECTOR, BAUXITE RESOURCES: Good evening. It's pleasure being here.TICKY FULLERTON: Your company recently signed a memorandum of understanding with a major Chinese industrial company. How important was that MOU for Bauxite Resources?DAN TENARDI: It's extremely important for Bauxite Resources because it represents a project of national importance, capital expenditure in the vicinity of $1.5 billion, 1,000 direct jobs - quite a significant project and also an opportunity to introduce downstream processing into our industry over here.TICKY FULLERTON: You've also got a government - a Chinese government agency investing significant amounts of money in your company. Just explain to me in your own words how the Rio Tinto-Hu saga has impacted on you potentially doing business?DAN TENARDI: Really the impact has been negligible. I think it was highlighted to us yesterday that there is some concern coming out of China by our potential customers and partners that it may be doing some damage to our relationship over here.TICKY FULLERTON: You actually got a call from the Chinese company, didn't you? What did they say to you?DAN TENARDI: They really were inquiring as to whether or not the relationship would be damaged. Whether or not there would be any adverse impact on future relationships. They were very concerned that from a public perspective in Australia, the reports in the media has been probably adverse to the Chinese people.TICKY FULLERTON: You spent a lot of time in China. You have close colleagues in China. What is the mood amongst your colleagues at the moment?DAN TENARDI: I think the mood is such that there is a little bit of trepidation, if you like, amongst the - that this thing could escalate and impact on Chinese-Australian relationships in the longer term.TICKY FULLERTON: So when the Chinese company concerned called you yesterday, do you think that was an isolated incident or do you think there are relationships with other Australian companies where these concerns are being played out?DAN TENARDI: I can't really comment on other companies but I suspect that they would be more widespread than just BRL.TICKY FULLERTON: One of the allegations that surrounds Mr Hu and Rio Tinto is an allegation of bribery. Is it possible that the Chinese way of doing business and the Western way of doing business has a completely different view of what a bribe might be?DAN TENARDI: That is certainly possible. There are significant cultural differences in the way both China and Australia do business. And I think the time, you know, that is spent now in pursuing diplomatic channels in establishing the real facts of this - because I am not sure what the facts are. I don't think anyone is at this stage other than maybe government officials.TICKY FULLERTON: So where do you think the grey areas might be if it's not wining and dining - is it gifts, that sort of thing?DAN TENARDI: Certainly it's not even in gifts. It's traditional to exchange gifts. Look, I really don't know. I think perhaps in information sharing - that may be an issue. There may be some grey areas there. But again, it's hard to say what the grey areas might be. I think you have just got to be respectful of foreign law and foreign cultures. I think you have to respect their culture and they have to respect ours.TICKY FULLERTON: If you were at Rio Tinto now, you used to work for them a while ago, but if you were there now, how would you be manoeuvring as far as this instant goes?DAN TENARDI: Look my experience with Rio Tinto, and I held senior roles with Rio Tinto, was that they were very careful with the way they did business. On a regular and almost annual basis we were subjected to the way we work policies. We were examined in terms of trade practices, not only in Australia but in - overseas. And there were very clear guidelines as to how we should behave. I don't think that will change. You know, I think this is an individual case, an isolated incident, that not much is known about. It's very hard to comment on.TICKY FULLERTON: Do you go along the line that this is a political incident and Mr Hu is a bit of a pawn?DAN TENARDI: No, I don't. I don't believe that. I do think as I said before, that it's in the best interests of everyone that the situation is clarified and quickly. There's not enough information to say whether it's political or otherwise. I just don't think it is.TICKY FULLERTON: Behind all this appears to be some anger from the Chinese Government about metal prices. How significant is last night's deal that Vale has struck with Europe do you think?DAN TENARDI: I think you're absolute correct in stating that there's certainly a feeling about the metal prices. I don't think it's of any real significance. I think only time will really solve this issue. I think China has some grounds in fact, you know, on metal prices.