Why is Australia the most successful and most peaceful multiculture in the developed world? How did an Anglo nation responsible for Aboriginal land theft, anti-Chinese riots and the White Australia Policy mutate into the country with arguably the least interracial violence in the developed world?Simple: Despite the cherished myth of Australian individuality, we're far more conformist than we like to think. Our conformism - visible in Australia's intertwined culture of mateship, tall-poppy lopping and merciless teasing - turns most second-generation migrants into Aussies within 12 years of schooling.What happens in schools is a neat inversion of the infamous assimilation policies deployed by Australian governments until the late 1960s. The authoritarian top-down ban on non-Anglo languages and cultural practices is long gone, and what remains is a natural form of assimilation.Children and teenagers the world over exert powerful pressure on their peers, rooting out difference in all its forms through teasing and social exclusion. Aware of their culture's conformism, Australian youths are amongst the world's best at imprinting a generic culture on each other.Visitors from overseas often comment on how seemingly harshly Australians treat our friends. Friendly though the savaging is, it serves to bind the group - and the nation.By the time a young Australian hits their teens, peers have become the major influence on a teenager's life and parents have been relegated to second place.The stories I hear from our multiculture confirm this: An Anglo 20-something man meets Vietnamese-Australian woman. Her parents had a Vietnamese-Australian in mind, but she went with her heart -supported by the goodwill of her friends. A 19 year old Chinese-Australian whose parents wanted her to be a doctor or lawyer. With the encouragement of her school friends and teachers, she chose the humanities.Second generation migrants become hyphenated Australians in school. Their parents, those who leave home, find it incredibly hard to leave behind the habits and cultural expectations of a lifetime. Their culture is doubly entrenched through homesickness. Their children shift and change as they watch, wriggling out of parental expectations, negotiating their peers and trying to fit in as best they can despite their different skin tone. Later in life, many report negotiating a hybrid existence between their rich ancestral culture and the Australian imprinting performed at schools.The main tensions migrants experience are between sons and daughters and their parents, not between different ethnic groups. Thankfully, ethnicity-based schools are a tiny minority. The children of migrants overwhelmingly attend mainstream public or private schools, where Australian modes of thought and expression flourish.Conformism has its detractors.High-flying expat Aussies often cite the bland pressures of Australia's middletopia as their reason for leaving. But conformism is the single most important reason why Australia has been mercifully spared the ethnic tensions of Western Europe, where tension over immigration has shifted many left-leaning countries well to the right.The Cronulla riots, Redfern uprising and bashing of Indians notwithstanding, Australia's multicultural experiment has thrived.Ethnic tensions in the UK, Europe and America are far worse. In France, housing estates keep North African and Middle Eastern migrants on the margins of large cities, forever on the outside looking in. America's racial tensions are well documented - growing anti-Latino sentiment, the grievances of a perennial black underclass and flighty whites. In the UK, the fascist anti-immigration BNP party is on the march, taking up its first two seats in the European Parliament in July. Yet non-Anglos account for only about 8 per cent of the UK's 60 million, while about 23 per cent of Australians were born overseas.We have become home to nearly seven million migrants since WWII. Granted, many of those came from the United Kingdom, but Greeks, Italians and Vietnamese feature prominently.Why, then, are ethnic tensions far worse in Britain? How did Australia avoid its own large-scale Brixton Riots of 1981 and 1985 and recurring riots throughout the 90s and noughties?By and large, Australia has been lucky. Our conformism is a hangover from colonial times, when a young and awkwardly situated white country could ill afford difference. Class divisions are weaker because our powerful union movement has created a middle class majority.On a sparsely populated continent, overcrowding is not a factor. Migrants cluster in the major cities and prefer particular suburbs, but there are no ghettoes. Our resilient economy has prevented Pauline Hanson's jobs-for-whites sentiments gaining much sympathy. We have accommodated a massive demographic shift without violence. Australia was a 90 per cent Anglo-Celt monoculture in 1947. That figure is now 67 per cent and dropping slowly by 0.3 per cent per year, according to figures from demographer Charles Price.We've avoided tension because of the very gradual erosion of the White Australia Policy. Postwar Australian governments opened the doors tentatively, first to Anglo Europeans, then, desperate for workers, to Southern Europeans. Later came the Vietnamese and Cambodian refugees, and then came the rest of the world - Chinese, Indian, former Yugoslavia, Horn of African countries and Sudan.With luck, a European outpost in the middle of South East Asia, a country frequently fearful of its place in the world has become the world's most successful multiculture. When he first coined the phrase in the 1960s, Donald Horne intended the Lucky Country to be a pejorative. Once again, he has been proven wrong.