We've analysed more than half a million answers to the world's hardest G20 quiz. Here's what Australians do and don't know about their place in the world.In the lead-up to the G20 summit in Brisbane, we launched the world's hardest G20 quiz, asking the ABC audience to pick Australia out of the G20 line-up on a range of metrics - from obesity to happiness. Here's how you did.Overall, you failed. The average score was 38 out of 110. Then again, since we did call it the world's hardest G20 quiz, perhaps that's not too shabby.Across all 11 questions, the average deviation from the correct response was 1.5 slots below Australia's correct ranking.Here's a closer look at what your answers might tell us (in an entirely unscientific way) about how people view Australia's place in the world.We asked how much carbon dioxide Australia emits per capita, compared to all the G20 countries.Users' average response was two places lower than Australia's correct placing - around the level of Russia, where emissions stand at 12.2 metric tonnes per capita compared to Australia's 16.9 metric tonnes per capita. (Data: World Bank)We asked how happy you think Australians are, and it turns out you think we're as happy as Chinese people actually are.Australians, according to this Gallup poll, are a fair bit happier than that - and the second happiest in the G20. (Data: Gallup)When we asked how big you thought the Australian economy was, the average guess was around where Italy's GDP actually stands.That would make our economy as big as Italy, and just a touch smaller than Russia. (Data: World Bank)A lot has been made of the fact there is only one woman in Cabinet, which might explain why when we asked what proportion of federal MPs were women, the average response came in a good dash lower than the reality.The Upper House makes the difference here: 38 per cent of senators are women, compared to 26 per cent in the House of Representatives. (Data: IPU)The average response to our question about Australia's obesity rate was close to the mark, just one rank away from the country's true position amid G20 countries. (Data: Lancet; Eurostat; Geohive)On average, quiz respondents guess Australian internet speeds were one place higher in the G20 than they really are.But that one position on the ladder is actually a pretty big jump - from speeds of 16 megabits per second up to 22 megabits per second. (Data: Ookla)On average, respondents were closer to getting this one correct than any other question on the quiz.It asked how equal men and women were in Australia, and the average response was just a tad above where the data suggests Australia sits. (Data: World Economic Forum)The answer to this question seemed to come as a surprise to a lot of respondents: Transparency International's Corruption Perception Index gives Australia (equal) top marks in the G20, in terms of how free from corruption its public sector is seen to be.The average response was four places away from the correct answer, one of the biggest gaps of any question. (Data: Transparency International)By Tim Leslie & Sarah Scopelianos (producers), Colin Gourlay (developer), Ben Spraggon (designer), Lucy Fahey (illustrator) and Matthew Liddy (editor)  