ASIO has warned the major parties about taking donations from two billionaires because its intelligence reveals worrying links to the Chinese Communist Party. The agency has also briefed Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, his predecessor, Tony Abbott, and Opposition Leader Bill Shorten.A Four Corners-Fairfax investigation has discovered the two are property developers Huang Xiangmo and Dr Chau Chak Wing. Between them and their associated entities they have donated around $6.7 million to the Liberal, Labor and National Parties over a decade. Dr Chau is an Australian citizen. Mr Huang's citizenship application has been stalled by ASIO.The secret briefings to the parties' administrative heads were delivered by ASIO's director general, Duncan Lewis, in 2015. But the Liberals and Labor continued to accept donations from the men or their associates — the Coalition taking $897,960 and Labor $200,000.Dr Chau is referred to by the code name CC3 in a court case brought by the FBI over the bribery of the former president of the United Nations General Assembly, John Ashe. The FBI alleged Australian-Chinese consultant, Sheri Yan, used $200,000 of Dr Chau's money to bribe Mr Ashe in November 2013. Ms Yan pleaded guilty to bribery charges and is currently serving a 20-month prison sentence. Dr Chau has never been charged or accused of wrongdoing. The investigation also revealed that Mr Huang reneged on a $400,000 pledge to Labor in June last year, after its defence spokesman took a hard line on China's militarisation of the South China Sea.The following day Senator Sam Dastyari appeared with Mr Huang at a press conference - called exclusively for Chinese-language media - where the Senator echoed Beijing's line, saying the disputed waters were China's concern.Senator Dastyari later lost his shadow cabinet position over revelations Mr Huang and a second Chinese donor had paid for some of the Labor figure's expenses.A week later, as Mr Huang continued to withhold the promised $400,000, the ALP hosted Mr Huang at a press conference. There, it was announced Labor had placed Mr Huang's political ally, Chinese businessman and ALP member Simon Zhou, on the last spot on the ALP's senate ticket.The investigation revealed Senator Dastyari also personally contacted the Immigration Department on two occasions in a bid to assist Mr Huang gain Australian citizenship. Two more attempts were made to push the case with Immigration, either by the Senator or his office.Mr Huang never paid the $400,000 donation to the ALP. Mr Huang and his associates also donated $50,000 to former Trade Minister Andrew Robb's campaign financing vehicle, the Bayside Forum, on the day the Free Trade Agreement was signed in 2014.In a separate development, the investigation found Mr Robb began working as a consultant to yet another Chinese billionaire, Ye Cheng, the day before the 2016 federal election. He had previously announced he was resigning from the Melbourne seat of Goldstein and ceased to be an MP on May 9. Mr Cheng's company, Landbridge Group, became embroiled in a controversy that rippled all the way to the White House when it was awarded a 99-year lease over the Port of Darwin. The Four Corners-Fairfax investigation revealed Mr Robb is receiving a fee of $880,000 a year for being a part-time consultant to Landbridge Group.Mr Ye is also a member of the national Chinese People's Political Consultative Committee, an advisory body that President Xi Jinping has directed to "uphold the CPC [Chinese Communist Party] leadership without wavering".Both Mr Huang and Dr Chau have served on similar committees. The revelations come as the United States grapples with the extent of Russian meddling in its political system.Australian intelligence agencies have major concerns the Chinese Communist Party is interfering in Australian institutions and using the political donations system to gain access.Eight senior official sources said in confidential briefings that China is active on a much larger scale here than other countries which also engage in soft power or clandestine operations to wield influence.One senior official said the intelligence painted a "much darker" picture of Chinese Communist Party influence than that presented by the Four Corners-Fairfax investigation.Dr Chau declined to answer questions because he was travelling. Mr Huang also did not answer questions, but said in a statement: "It is regrettable that without knowing me, Four Corners would seek to question my motives and undermine my reputation based on recycled news reports, dubious assertions and innuendo".He was "committed to more positive endeavours, such as investment, philanthropy and building stronger community relations," the statement said.Mr Robb did not answer specific questions about his dealings with Landbridge Group but said in a statement: "I can confirm that I fully understand my responsibilities as a former member of cabinet, and I can also confirm that I have, at all times, acted in accordance with those responsibilities."Senator Dastyari issued a statement saying it was his job "to assist constituents with migration matters including liaising with the Department of Immigration".Watch the Four Corners report "Power and Influence" on ABC iview.