At a plush new nursing home in Beijing's north-western outskirts, a youthful looking 84-year-old named Lian Dehai is getting spruced up.Today, the Tiantong Hall aged care home has the barbers in, and although his short hair barely needs a trim, he is nonetheless taking advantage of the service."I feel very good here, very comfortable," he smiled, as the barber took the slightest amount off the top.Our children can't be around all the time, they have their own career and their own children, it's very hard for them to look after us. Mr Lian and his wife moved in to the newly-built development when living independently became too hard.The Australian company, Provectus, and its Chinese partner established the facility with around 150 beds earlier this year.Mr Lian said that although his son lived nearby, moving in with him was not an option."In China we have an old tradition — having your sons and daughters around you is your destiny when old. I think this tradition is now shattered," he said. "Our children can't be around all the time. They have their own career and their own children. It's very hard for them to look after us."For some residents at Tiantong Hall, their children have moved abroad, in a growing trend fuelled by China's rapid economic transformation.Australian-based designer John Deng's father lives in Tiantong."My dad came to Australia five times to visit me," he said."I very much insisted he could stay with me and I could look after him in Australia. But of course home is very much in China. That's his choice." By 2050, demographers say close to 40 per cent of China's population will be above 60.That means China's government is facing an enormous economic burden of caring for the elderly.The ageing population has been worsened by the decades-old one child policy, which the government recently moved to scrap.But a government-led push to increase the availability of nursing home beds is also being hampered by a traditional aversion to professional aged care."Chinese tradition has taught people that sending parents to a nursing home would be unfilial," Beijing Yinian Elderly Care Promotion Centre's Zhou Mingming said."In the past few years, this idea is gradually changing, but it can't be changed overnight."Ms Zhou said 90 per cent of elderly people in Beijing lived at home, while 6 per cent relied on public neighbourhood care, leaving only 4 per cent in private nursing homes.That 4 per cent is expected to grow, prompting Australian aged care companies to race to China.Independent Management Group is working through the initial stages of a project in China's north-east that could accommodate 9,000 aged care units in a single development."Compared to a project in Australia where we do hundreds, here we're talking about thousands and thousands of units," managing director Susan Malone said.Another major Australian project in the works would see a 2,500-bed development in Shanghai established by Aveo in conjunction with a local Chinese partner."There's no question this can be a huge boom for Australia. The [free trade agreement] has opened doors for conversations with companies," Aveo China's operations director Julie Jackson said."There's going to 400 million people over 65 by 2050. For a country of 23 million, that's a huge market. Even if we only capture 5 per cent, that's still 20 million people."