A 25-year-old Australian man will face a Chinese court today charged with attempting to smuggle ice out of the country.  Peter Gardner was arrested at Guangzhou airport last November before boarding a flight to Sydney. Chinese customs found 30 kilograms of crystal methamphetamine in both pieces of check-in luggage belonging to the New Zealand-born man, who holds both Australian and New Zealand citizenship. Authorities had to pry open the suitcases because the zippers were sealed with superglue.Gardner's Australian travel partner, Kalynda Davis, was allowed to return to Sydney, after being detained for several weeks, because authorities said she had no knowledge of the case.Local Chinese media described the case at the time as the biggest single haul of methamphetamine ever seized by Guangzhou customs.Guangzhou is the capital of Guangdong province, which is notorious for being the meth manufacturing hub of China.One of Gardner's lawyers, Craig Tucker, said the trial was unlikely to last longer than two days. A verdict may not be known until later. Gardner potentially faces the death penalty because Chinese law states anyone caught with 50 grams or more of heroin or methamphetamine is liable for capital punishment. Gardner is one of several Australians in trouble in China for drug-related offences.Adelaide jockey Anthony Bannister is awaiting a verdict after his trial last October.  New Zealand diplomats in China have been providing Gardner with consular assistance, indicating he entered the country with his New Zealand passport.They are expected to be present at the trial, along with members of Gardner's family.Gardner's trial comes soon after an emotional debate leading up to the execution of convicted Australian drug smugglers Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran in Indonesia. According to the Australian Crime Commission, a growing amount of methamphetamine is being imported into Australia because massive profits can be made as the drug is significantly more expensive within the country. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime says the average street price of methamphetamine in China is $99 per gram, whereas in Australia it is $624. Wholesale prices in Australia range from $90,000 to $325,000 per kilogram. Drug trafficking syndicates with links to China and Hong Kong traffic methamphetamine into, and through, South East Asia by air and sea cargo containers.