Grape crushing has started at the new Australian home of China's third-largest winemaker, Weilong Grape Wine Company, near Mildura in north-west Victoria — but the wine is not for the Australian market.With plans to send every bottle of wine made directly overseas, Weilong is expected to further lift the reputation of the local Sunraysia region for its quality produce.The $75 million facility is set to crush around 25,000 tonnes of mainly red varieties for its first vintage at Weilong Wine Company's facility at Yatpool."We planned to have the wine bottled by the end of the year, and on sale for Chinese New Year in January 2020," said Weilong's general manager of Australian operations, Bruno Zappia. "The company has enough faith in the region to have an investment of this size."  The rising amount of interest and investment in Australia's product from China has been growing rapidly along with China's economy in the past decade. According to Wine Australia, Australian wine exports to north-east Asia increased 51 per cent in the past financial year and were worth $1.2 billion.  But why the sudden interest? "Australia is recognised as a place of green and clean. The Chinese people look at Australia has being safe and clean and it's very attractive to a Chinese consumer," Mr Zappia said. "They have become more affluent and can now afford high-priced goods and wine, good quality, clean wine, is among that."I think people should encourage any investment in the region. The interest isn't just in wine, but table grapes, citrus, almonds and cattle. "We should be welcoming the Chinese and be exploring business opportunities because it's only going to benefit us." The investment by Weilong into Australian-grown wine will help cement the quality of wine produced regions like the Murray, according to executive officer of Murray Valley Wine Growers, Mike Stone.  "It's extremely significant for Australia, there hasn't been a winery development of this magnitude for many years," Mr Stone said. "It's a fantastic opportunity in terms of marketing wine from our region."It speaks volumes for their confidence in our ability to produce the quality fruit for the wine they want to deliver to their customers back home."It's also highlights our reputation and the fact that we can deliver what they want, it's good for the future that a business of this size has located in our region."  Delays in construction have delayed this year's season and the winery is expected to crush around 3,000-tonnes-worth of grapes. But with $120 million raised for the project, there are already big plans for further expansion at Weilong."The winery has the capacity to reach 170,000 tonnes," winery manager Andrew Allen said."At the moment we have council approval to go to 80,000 tonnes."We'll go up by 20,000-tonne increments every year and then reassess and try to get council approval for 168,000 tonnes." 