The term "soft power" has been thrown around the media and academic circles for the last couple of years, but its currency has heightened in regards to Australia's relationship with China.All countries practise some form of soft power — the ability to coax and persuade other countries that their culture and values are desirable — through organisations like the British Institutes, Alliance Francoise or the Goethe Institutes.American soft power regularly tops the tables and largely because of its popular culture, like Hollywood films or corporate labels like Levis.In North Asia, South Korea has been successful with K-pop songs like Gangnam Style. It is a recognition that for nations to be powerful they need more than economic might and military threat. They need soft power. Soft power is by its very nature not coercive and is determined by its ability to appeal and attract others.China has realised this and come to the game much later than most other countries. In the late 2000s, it identified "the threat theory" that much of the Western world sees China as distinctly unfriendly.Now China is devoting billions to try to refashion its image.Chinese President Xi Jinping has made it a priority and has said China has to become a "cultural superpower".His directions for China's soft power strategy are specific: "To give a good Chinese narrative and better communicate China's messages to the world. To be portrayed as a civilised place featuring a rich history, with good government and developed economy, cultural prosperity and diversity and beautiful mountains and rivers."A big part of the plan is to take over Hollywood. The Chinese want to take back some of the popular global narrative to drive their message home. It means no longer will China be presented as the bad guy, but as a noble civilised place as President Xi wants. The Chinese have the market power to make sure it happens. In 2018, China will become the world's biggest box office, surpassing America, and it will keep growing, at least doubling before peaking.Now in China, 22 new cinemas open everyday.Hollywood producers are now considering the "China factor" in any future profitability. Stories and narratives are changing to become more appealing to the Chinese. Many of the world's future blockbusters will be made in China.When the Oriental Movie Metropolis in the Chinese coastal city of Qingdao becomes operational next year it will dwarf any Hollywood studio.Thirty big-budget films are slated in first couple of years. The first, The Great Wall, with a budget of $180 million, has Hollywood star Matt Damon playing the suspicious savage who is finally convinced by a noble Chinese warlord and beautiful maiden to take up the good Chinese fight.The man in charge of making the reality a vision is Wang Jianlin — China's Rupert Murdoch — and he has the backing of the top leadership.Wang is a party member and spent 16 years in the People's Liberation Army before he quit to build a real estate and media empire.Wang has gone on a $10-billion buying spree and is buying up Hollywood one piece at a time. He has bought US production house Legendary Entertainment and Dick Clark Studios.He has also purchased AMC entertainment — the second-biggest cinema chain in the US — as well as snapping up Europe's biggest cinema group Odeon and Hoyts in Australia. But film is just one part of China's soft power strategy. The Government has put $10 billion into promoting Chinese traditional culture and language. It has set up 500 Confucius institutes in 140 countries all controlled by the Central Propaganda Committee in Beijing.Australia has been fertile ground for China's soft power. Fourteen Confucius Institutes have been established at Australian universities and 60 schools around Australia have introduced Confucius classrooms. Many say it is smart and proper to establish a bigger understanding and deeper relationship with our biggest trading partner. But others say sometimes the Confucius institutes overstep the mark, and attempts at soft power backfire when the Chinese try to control what can be said about human rights or the independence of Taiwan or Tibet.Chinese values clash with Australian ideals of freedom of speech and inquiry.There are a growing number of Australian academics like former ambassador to China Stephen Fitzgerald, who say the Confucius institutes should be scrutinised much more as they compromise academic integrity.At Peking University I had the good fortune to hear the man who invented the term 'soft power' and inspired the Chinese leadership to take up the cause, Harvard professor Joseph Nye.He says China does have soft power and its economic success is China's greatest story to sell: "China gets a lot of soft power that it has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty and this is a huge accomplishment of which China should be proud of."But Professor Nye says China's soft power has fundamental flaws. Its claims in the South China Sea undermine attempts to make it appear friendly or attractive. Also, its program is being driven by the top leadership and not the people. Professor Nye says soft power is usually more successful if it comes from the grass roots and is not a dictated program."Civil society is really crucial to developing soft power and I think it's very difficult for the party to unleash the full talents of China's civil society," he says.Professor Nye says it will be some time yet before China overtakes America as the dominant global power, so in the meantime, get ready for more Chinese heroes at the movies.