It is not a region synonymous with fine wine, but producers from China are making their mark on the industry.Judy Chan is the chief executive of Grace Vineyard wines, an internationally award-winning vineyard established in the Shanxi province in 1997."Back then most of the wine produced in China was mainly for the mass market," she said."There weren't many wines that were quality-focused."Ms Chan has brought her wares to Australia as part of the Melbourne Food and Wine Festival.An event at the Langham Hotel will compare and contract Chinese wine with Australian-produced drops.On a first tasting, Ms Chan said many people reacted with surprise."Most of the time it's shock. 'What? China produce wine? Really?'," she said.The taste for wine is a relatively recent phenomenon in China and has only taken off in the past 15 years. Ms Chan said many of the workers at her winery had never tasted wine before starting at the vineyard."Even when I started 14 years ago, and I asked people to taste the wine, they'd ask me what it is," she said."Many people have never drank wine before."Certainly for a lot of people who work in the winery their parents didn't drink wine so they didn't drink wine, so they first drink wine when they join us. "But that's quite different now, in the last five, 10 years the whole scene changed."The thirst for wine has been a big boon for Australian producers, with strong growth in the export market.But the Chinese scene has been growing too.Wine critic Roy Moorfield said many Australians were impressed when they sampled Chinese wine."And I think that's what's surprising, they have no concept that China can produce wine of this standard," he said."[If you] take a masked bottle of wine to your local wine group and say 'where do you think this is from?' I can guarantee that no one ever thinks it's from China."Grace Vineyard wine is not available in Australia, and with 35 million people in Shanxi province alone, it could sell every bottle at home. But Judy Chan would be keen to see her products here."We make wine to show other people, not only Chinese but everybody else," she said."So it would be an honour to be listed in the top restaurants and hotels in Australia."Mr Moorfield believed Australians might acquire a taste for the product."Australians are very adventurous... adventurous wine drinkers," he said."Look at the trend at the moment, they're drinking so many wines from overseas. So there is a small market, but nevertheless it would be an enthusiastic one."