Husband and wife Lin Zhang and Hilary Chen arrived on Dubbo's doorstep in September with a plan to wind down their working life.However, what they encountered was a lot of heat and hard work.Having never grown a grape or made a drop of wine, the Chinese-born couple traded in their city life to become vignerons at Red Earth Estate, one of just three vineyards in the drought-stricken Dubbo area."I always dreamed of the country life and it's come true now," Mr Zhang said."But I thought the country life would be easier and involve not much work."With one harvest under their belt and many lessons heeded, the pair is now at home serving wine and dumplings to the people of the west, as well as exporting their wine. Mr Zhang migrated to Australia from Tianjin City, China in 1988, when he was 26.He made his living in Sydney as an architect for three decades, and became involved in the wine industry 15 years ago after he was approached by Chinese contacts to supply them with high-quality Australian wine."Back then Australian wine wasn't popular in China. About 80 million people there drink Australian wine now, but maybe just 2 or 3 million did 15 years ago," he said.After years of exporting, Mr Zhang decided it was time to get his hands dirty.While Red Earth Estate is planted with white grape varieties including riesling, verdelho and terrantez, it is the red varieties of grenache, shiraz and cabernet sauvignon he knows the Chinese will love."They love dark, strong red wine. That's the reason I bought this vineyard," he said.In November Mr Zhang shipped his first two containers laden with Red Earth Estate shiraz to China.While exports are the focus of the business, it is just as important to the couple to make their wine available at the cellar door.Thanks to word-of-mouth advertising, caravanners regularly arrive at their cellar door after a long day of sightseeing at nearby Taronga Western Plains Zoo."They like to taste the wine and get a cheese platter and some of our dumplings," Mr Zhang said. While the couple's dream of retiring to the country has certainly come true, they have learnt a sleepy retirement is a long way off.With customers to greet and vines to prune, the pair works long days and have hardly rested since September."I thought the country life should be easier and not much work. But when I took ownership of Red Earth Estate I did lots of physical work and worried about lots of things," Mr Zhang said."When I first arrived I lost two sizes of my pants. I lost 6 kilograms actually."Ms Chen was also shocked by the workload and dry climate."I got very red spots on my body because it's so dry here. It's just so different from Sydney," she said. Despite crippling drought conditions in western NSW, Mr Zhang and Ms Chen received their vines in good condition, but production took a turn for the worst during summer's peak.As their grapes came online in February, so too came the birds — thousands of them.Mr Lin was shocked by how destructive they were."I tried to protect the grapes. I bought lots and lots of bird netting from Bunnings in Dubbo and Mudgee. I tried to buy it everywhere but it still wasn't enough," he said.The birds destroyed two whole crops of grapes."Next year should be OK though because I ordered 30 kilometres of netting from China," Mr Zhang said.With irrigation water available from the nearby Macquarie River, they are on track for a 30-tonne crop this year.  Settling into the city of Dubbo, with a population 39,000, took a few months for Mr Zhang and Ms Chen, who were both raised in Chinese mega cities with populations of more than 20 million."In the beginning it was feeling a little bit hard," Mr Zhang said. "But a couple of months later and I'm really enjoying it."I like Dubbo people. They're really friendly, helpful and lovely."Ms Chen, who hails from Shanghai, has fallen in love with her new life."The people here are very kind and they've welcomed us and helped us," she said.So, how does she describe Dubbo to her Chinese family?"It's very different. It's quiet, peaceful and I think Dubbo people are very happy here. In China we have huge crowds. Here, it's totally different."