A Chinese bid for a 50 per cent stake in Kalgoorlie-Boulder's Super Pit reportedly worth more than $US1 billion should be given the green light by the Foreign Investment Review Board, O'Connor MP Rick Wilson says.Canada's Barrick Gold put its half of Australia's biggest-producing gold mine on the market in July, with Seven West Media reporting that Minjar Gold had trumped rival bids by quite a margin. Sources close to Minjar, a subsidiary of Shanghai real estate company Shandong Tianye Group, told the ABC they were "in acquisition mode" following the $52 million purchase of the Pajingo mine in Queensland in August, and the restart of the Minjar project in WA's Mid-West. US giant Newmont Mining owns the other half of the Super Pit and is believed to be among four bidders, including Australia's biggest gold producer Newcrest Mining and China's Zijin Mining Group. The deal is set to reignite the national debate about foreign investment after Treasurer Scott Morrison this year scuttled the sale of the Kidman cattle empire to Chinese-led consortiums on national interest grounds.Mr Wilson told the ABC from Canberra this morning the existing foreign ownership structure at the Super Pit meant the Chinese bid should not be blocked. "A lot of people don't understand that many of these mines are already owned by foreign interests," Mr Wilson said. "Quite frankly I don't really mind whether its American, Australian or Chinese ownership, as long there is capital flowing into the industry. "It's a great vote of confidence in the Super Pit going forward, and those 1,080 jobs that the operation provides in the district are so important, and that capital injection is really going to give them a confidence booster for the future."Liam Twigger, managing director of Perth-based corporate advisors PCF Capital Group, said blocking the Super Pit sale to the Chinese would amount to "commercial suicide for Australia". PCF Capital Group has estimated Barrick's half share could be worth between $US547 million and $US1.4 billion, based on existing gold reserves. WA Opposition Leader Mark McGowan told the ABC the Foreign Investment Review Board must assess whether the new co-owners had a balance sheet capable of sustaining ongoing investment. "I would like to see whoever owns the Super Pit have the capacity to keep it operational for as long as possible, and ensure ongoing employment in Kalgoorlie," he said."I'm not opposed to foreign investment. It's the basis of our mining sector."Where the investment comes from doesn't worry me, what I do care about is long-term jobs and making sure it stays open as long as possible." Zijin became the first Chinese company to invest in the WA gold sector in 2012 when it paid $229 million to acquire Norton Gold Fields' 30-year-old Paddington operations near Kalgoorlie-Boulder. Shandong Gold also invested $227 million in 2012 to acquire a 51 per cent stake in Focus Minerals, but mothballed its Laverton and Coolgardie operations after the gold price collapsed in 2013. Focus had $66.4 million in the bank at June 30 and maintains it will not restart production until it has five years' ore reserves. KalNorth Gold Mines is another Chinese vehicle that controls more than 1.1 million ounces of gold resources near Kalgoorlie-Boulder, but was also forced to close its Lindsay's mine in 2013. "It [the Minjar bid] may well reignite some debate around foreign investment, and it would appear that farming properties are seen to be sacrosanct, but mining investment not so much," Mr Wilson said. "Personally I welcome the bid. It shows enormous confidence in gold and the Goldfields and Kalgoorlie in particular." Mr Wilson said China's Hanking Gold had created about 350 jobs when it restarted the Southern Cross operations it acquired for $22.5 million from Australian gold miner St Barbara in January 2013. Hong Kong-listed Hanking put its Southern Cross operations on the market in July with an asking price reportedly above $400 million."Foreign capital is vital to the mining industry. Whether it comes from China or other countries doesn't really worry me," Mr Wilson said. "I just think it's important that we attract that foreign capital into the industry." Newmont last year took over day-to-day running of the Super Pit as Barrick took a back seat in the operational arm of Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines. The Super Pit has been operating since 1989 after the late Alan Bond consolidated most of the mining leases on the historic Golden Mile. 
Topics:
gold,


	
	mining-industry,


	
	foreign-affairs,


	
	kalgoorlie-6430
