A group of locals in Coonamble on the central western plains of New South Wales have organised a rain dance event for next month, in the hope it will break the drought.What started as a light-hearted way to raise spirits has become a social media hit, with farmers, school children, mechanics and more uploading their own dance videos to Facebook in the hope of bringing on the rain. Local vet Kylie Parry said the group wanted the event to focus on more than food and fodder, and inject some fun into what had been a difficult time for many."We wanted to focus on mental health too. It's not just about farmers, it's about their workers and the businesses in town who are struggling in the dry," she said. "We also wanted the conversation about drought to move beyond starving cattle. Most farmers out here take good care of their stock."They're not letting them starve. They've either sold them or spent a lot of money to keep feeding them."Either way our farmers are running low on income now and it's having a big flow-on impact on our community." Enter the rain dance, a common form of ritual across many cultures including Native American, African, Chinese and now Australian farmers too.Bucking Bull Hotel publican Scott Richardson was also involved in organising the event, wanting to raise as much awareness of the plight of his farming mates as possible."We needed something to get people talking. So we thought we'd challenge people to do a little rain dance, make a video and share it with their friends," he said. What followed next was a wave of videos uploaded to the Coonamble Rain Dance Facebook page.People have posted videos from as far away as England and Switzerland.Ms Parry said the support had been overwhelming."It's created such happiness in the community. It's been really uplifting so many people have come on board," she said. 
Topics:
drought,


	
	dance,


	
	social-media,


	
	coonamble-2829,


	
	goulburn-2580,


	
	wollongong-2500,


	
	moree-2400,


	
	gunnedah-2380,


	
	griffith-2680,


	
	walgett-2832,


	
	bourke-2840,


	
	bega-2550,


	
	wagga-wagga-2650,


	
	muswellbrook-2333,


	
	orange-2800,


	
	tamworth-2340,


	
	dubbo-2830,


	
	broken-hill-2880

    First posted 
    
      August 29, 2018 09:31:31
    
