High-profile Australian companies and their investors have learned the hard way this year that the Chinese market is not all it is cracked up to be. Baby milk producers, gambling houses and big banks have fallen victim to the difficulties of operating in the Middle Kingdom, prompting investors to tell companies to stick to their knitting. Milk powder marketer Bellamy's was certainly living the dream — with sales rocketing from $30 million to $245 million over the past three years, thanks largely to Chinese demand — until that demand dropped off. Bellamy's shock announcement this month that Chinese sales were falling led to a profit downgrade and wiped half-a-billion dollars from the company's value before it suspended itself from trade, while it comes up with a more detailed explanation to investors of what's going on. Fund manager Steve Johnson of Forager Funds said it was a lesson for Australian companies who found themselves with a hot product in China. "Then, all of a sudden, the latest and greatest will be usurped by the next hot thing. Sales evaporate and bewildered executives can't do anything about it," he said.  Unsurprisingly the plunge in share price and a board caught apparently by surprise has caught the attention of litigator Slater and Gordon, which has launched a class action alleging the company prioritised preserving reputation over proper disclosure of the challenges it was facing in China. Bellamy's misread the Chinese market after regulatory changes led to higher stockpiles. It slashed prices, but by doing so also slashed the desirability of its product in the eyes of Chinese consumers, who promptly switched to rival Australian baby milk producer A2 who that didn't discount. James Packer's gaming group Crown announced this week it was pulling out of China after a tumultuous year, selling its stake in the Macau based Melco Crown joint venture.The Chinese market has become increasingly fraught for gamblers following the Government's crackdown on corruption, and the environment became very difficult for Crown after 18 of its executives were arrested in October.No stranger to the vagaries of operating in China is Fortescue boss Nev Power who told Business PM that Australian businesses should be very careful when dealing in the Asian powerhouse. "It certainly can be challenging and we need to approach it in a very considered and thoughtful way and make sure like all business we understand the needs of our customers and work to satisfy those needs," he said."It is very much about ... not taking anything for granted, that's one thing we need to continually work at." Have some Australian businesses been naive in their approach to operating in China? "I think that is probably fair to say that," Mr Power said.He pointed out that China was a very complex country with many different regions with significantly different rules, regulations, and ways of doing business. "I don't think it is a magic market — it is a market that we need to fully understand." Two months ago ANZ boss Shayne Elliot ended the bank's Asian expansion launched by his predecessor Mike Smith, announcing the sale of retail and wealth businesses in five Asian countries, including China. "Our strategic priority is to create a simpler, better capitalised, better balanced bank focused on attractive areas where we can carve out winning positions," Mr Elliott said at the time. High-profile investor Peter Morgan attended ANZ's AGM and welcomed the banks' strategy of getting out of China's retail banking space. "Australia's got to realise its place in the world it's not Australia v China, it's the whole world we're competing with," he told Business PM.