A new digital subscription service will have Chinese couples glued to their TVs, but it's not a case of Netflix and chill.Instead, they'll be using a smart TV app to talk to Australian fertility experts.Melbourne fertility clinic Monash IVF has partnered with the platform BabySmart so couples in China can have face-to-face consultations with Australian clinicians.The clinic began offering IVF services to Chinese couples in 2017 after signing an agreement with Melbourne-based AC International Medical Tourism, which targets the Chinese market.Demand for IVF has reportedly soared in China since 2016 when the country phased out its one-child policy and began allowing married couples to have two children. Monash IVF's Dr Ken Leong said the idea behind the new platform was to connect Australian experts "to the largest healthcare market in the world"."Chinese consumers ... could log on, book a time and connect up with not just doctors in Victoria but other healthcare professionals — genetic counsellors, physiotherapists, dieticians," he told ABC Radio Melbourne's Jon Faine. Louise Johnson, chief executive of the Victorian Assisted Reproductive Treatment Authority (VARTA), said there were no regulations covering couples from overseas seeking IVF treatment in Australia. "Anybody can access the services of a clinic if they choose to travel, and many Australians access services overseas," she said."Similarly, on occasions, people from overseas come to Australia to access assistive reproductive services." She said no data had been collected on the number of people travelling to Australia to receive help conceiving.  However, she said it was unlikely demand from overseas would impact the ability of locals to access IVF treatment."At this stage we're not talking about large numbers," she said, adding the local industry had plenty of capacity to accommodate overseas clients. She said the care of patients from overseas was subject to the same regulatory controls governing treatment of Australians. Dr Leong said the Chinese health system focused on hospital treatment."Patients are unwell, they go to hospital, they get a number, they queue up and there's millions of them doing that," he said."Patients wait a long time and then by the time they get to the end of the queue and see a doctor the interaction is often very short."He said wealthy and middle-class Chinese patients often travelled abroad for treatment. "It's a current trend, it's already happening."They're going to the US, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and surrounding areas like Thailand."I think that Australia needs to get in on the act and this is a perfect opportunity to allow that."He said he believed health care would eventually become one of Australia's biggest exports.While admitting the digital subscription platform was "not suited to all aspects of medicine", Dr Leong said couples with fertility problems would benefit from an online face-to-face consultation.  "In the fertility arena there's lots of questions, in fact very basic questions that would come up." He said the platform gave clinicians the ability to have a "good chat" with patients to ascertain whether or not they required IVF treatment.