The sister of an Australian entrepreneur jailed after a business dispute with the Chinese government has called on the Australian Government to "stand up" to Chinese authorities and release her brother.In an exclusive interview with the ABC, Li-Jaing Ng urged Federal Attorney-General George Brandis to grant her brother, Matthew Ng, a pardon and early release from prison.Mr Ng, an entrepreneur backed by the Packer and Lowy families, was jailed in Guangzhou after a dispute with the Chinese government over the planned sale of his $100-million stake in the travel company GZL.When he refused to comply with demands to sell his lucrative share of GZL back to the Chinese government, at cost price, he was arrested and charged with embezzlement and bribery offences.Mr Ng protested his innocence, but in 2011 he was found guilty and sentenced to 11-and-a-half years' jail. He spent four years in a squalid Chinese jail, in cramped and unhygienic conditions.Late last year, he became the first Australian to benefit from a prisoner swap deal between Australia and China and is now serving out the rest of his sentence at a prison farm in the NSW Hunter Valley. In what threatens to strain diplomatic relations between China and Australia, Mr Ng is asking the Australian Government to grant him an early release.Speaking to the ABC at her home in Auckland, Ms Ng said Australians should not tolerate what happened to her brother and many other fellow citizens."The Australian Government is afraid to offend China government," she said."Do you feel safe, every citizen of Australia? If you travel or you are going to work or do business in China, do you think it's safe?"Yesterday it was my brother, it could be anyone in Australia, any citizen."Why we need to suffer, they don't respect us. Why we need to respect them?"They not respect Australian citizens, not respect Australia country. Do we need to suffer that? I ask everyone are you happy to tolerate that?"In a detailed submission to Senator Brandis, Mr Ng's lawyers said he had post-traumatic stress disorder and that his sentence was "greatly in excess" of what would be imposed in Australia for similar offences. His lawyer Tom Lennox told the ABC the offences for which he was convicted would not attract a jail term in Australia.While he was in jail, Mr Ng's 15-year-old daughter Isabella died due to anxiety, depression and an eating disorder. Meanwhile, his wife is recovering from breast cancer and needs his help to raise their three surviving children.Mr Ng's sister told the ABC Isabella found out her father had been jailed in August 2011, when she read about it in newspapers. "The classmates, they knew, 'that's your father, your father is in the jail'," she said."She was very thin, she didn't want to talk and she complained she could not sleep."Isabella was hospitalised in Guangzhou and died in her aunt Li-Jaing's arms.Ms Ng made the heartbreaking decision not to tell her brother about Isabella's death while he was in the Chinese jail."I lost my daughter when she was 11 and I know what that feels like," she said."I strongly advised, don't tell him, it will make him miserable. It won't help. He will lose hope."Children is the main hope, for Matthew. He loves the family. He's a good father. Even how busy he is, he always make time to bring four children up."After Isabella's death, Mr Ng's wife Nikki Chow developed breast cancer and began to struggle financially. Ms Ng said she helped out by looking after their three children at her home in New Zealand.Ms Ng, who is a single mother of four children, had a total of seven children under her roof."He lost all his work, he's been working hard for the last 15 years, and lost money, doesn't matter but doesn't want to lost the family," she said."Doesn't want to lose the time to see the children growing, to enjoy the children, the family life that's very important, not just for Matthew, to see how the children grow, to bring up the children, that's most important."Mr Ng's lawyer, Mr Lennox, said it was time for the Australian Government to show some compassion."This is a man who has been through great trauma, he continues to suffer depression but he lives in hope," he said.In a statement to the ABC, the Federal Attorney-General's Department said the purpose of the International Transfer of Prisoners (ITP) scheme was to promote the rehabilitation and reintegration into society of the prisoner while still preserving the sentence originally imposed by the sentencing country."Transfers under the ITP scheme are not intended to provide a more lenient alternative for the prisoner," the statement said."We note recent reports that Matthew Ng has applied for a pardon. For privacy reasons, it is not appropriate to comment further on such applications."
Topics:
law-crime-and-justice,


	
	international-law,


	
	laws,


	
	prisons-and-punishment,


	
	foreign-affairs,


	
	government-and-politics,


	
	australia,


	
	china
