Two years on from the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines flight MH370, relatives of some of the victims have launched legal action demanding compensation. Of the 239 people on board MH370, 153 were Chinese nationals and now some relatives are suing for compensation in both Chinese and Malaysian courts. The cases come ahead of a two-year deadline to take legal action over international air accidents.Dai Shuqin, whose sister and five members of her extended family were on the flight, is suing the airline and doubts the official explanation for its disappearance."I just want to find out exactly what happened to the aircraft and where are the five lives of my sister's family," she said."I chose a foreign lawyer so that he could be more objective. He is neither Chinese or Malaysian, so he is more neutral."I just want to find out what exactly happened to the aircraft, and where are the five lives of my sister's family?"The flight disappeared while en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing exactly two years ago.Many families say they do not accept authorities claims the aircraft crashed in the southern Indian Ocean.A small group of about eight relatives continue to protest at the airline's Beijing office every day."I know it's useless coming to the office each day. I know they don't deal with us seriously when we come here," Ms Dai said."When we hand them our letters, they just don't bother to pay any attention."But I still need to come. As an ordinary person, I am so small, but that's all I can do."Many of the group protesting at the Malaysia Airlines office have been left lonely in old age after losing family members on the flight. We want to know and we have a right to know. We need to find our families. "I had three family members on board. Whenever I think of my children, I can barely see because of all the tears," said one woman, who is also taking legal action."It has been two years and I hope the Malaysian Government and Malaysia Airlines tell the truth about the investigation to our families."We want to know and we have a right to know. We need to find our families."So far only one piece of debris found last year on Reunion east of Madagascar has been confirmed as belonging to the plane.In recent weeks other pieces of debris have been found in Mozambique and Reunion, which authorities are examining.MH370, a Boeing 777, vanished on March 8, 2014, on an overnight flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.The unprecedented Australian-led hunt for wreckage of the flight is expected to finish its high-tech scanning of a designated swathe of seafloor in the remote Indian Ocean by July.Australian, Malaysian and Chinese authorities plan to end the search — projected to cost up to $130 million — at that point if no compelling new leads emerge.