If you think Australian film begins at Muriel's Wedding and ends at Priscilla, it's time to grab some popcorn and take a seat.  The Pioneering Women program at this year's Melbourne International Film Festival (MIFF) showcases Australian films from the 1980s and '90s by female directors. MIFF director Michelle Carey said the success of Emma-Kate Croghan's Love And Other Catastrophes in 1996 made it far easier for Australian producers to find funding for films directed by women.Ms Carey, who co-curated the program with film critic Alex Heller-Nicholas, said she "wanted to capture the generation just before that exploded".The program excludes the films of Jane Campion, who is the subject of a Melbourne Cinematheque retrospective later this year. From an anarchist lesbian heist film to an Indigenous horror anthology, these films show a different side to late 20th-century cinema.  If you've only seen one film on this list, it's probably this one. Following her success with Malcolm (1986), Nadia Tass's teenage comedy features a young Ben Mendelsohn and Claudia Karvan.Ms Carey said The Big Steal was "as close as Australia gets to a John Hughes film" such as The Breakfast Club or Ferris Bueller's Day Off."It's a real pleasure to watch on the big screen," she said.  In comparison to The Big Steal, Ms Carey said, Laurie McInnes's Broken Highway was "really underknown"."It has not quite entered the Australian canon in the way it should have." She said the film was released when '90s art house, exemplified by the black and white films of Jim Jarmusch, was at its zenith.While the film features high-profile actors including Aden Young, Bill Hunter and Claudia Karvan, McInness herself is better known as a cinematographer."You can really tell it's made with a cinematographer's eye — it's stunning," Ms Carey said. A personal favourite of Ms Carey, Ann Turner's Celia was released while the festival director was a student discovering her love of film. "It's an adult film about adult themes, seen through the eyes of a child."I think Ann Turner really captures that feeling of what it's like to be at that age."Ms Carey said the film was a rare exploration of the world of 1950s Australian communists.  A fan of Hong Kong cinema, Ms Carey was already aware of Melbourne-based director Clara Law when she discovered Floating Life while watching SBS. She said the European-style film "looked at Chinese Australian families in a way I'd never seen before"."It was just great seeing Australia through the eyes of this family who had uprooted their lives from busy Hong Kong to a plastic outer-suburban Sydney housing community."  "I'm always really shocked at how few younger people know of this film," Ms Carey said. She first saw Starstruck as an eight-year-old and has watched it over and over.  "I wore out the VHS ... I knew all the songs, all the lyrics, all the daggy dialogue."The musical comedy follows Jackie Mullen (Jo Kennedy), who works at her mum's Sydney pub but dreams of being a singer. Kennedy also stars in Mary Callaghan's Tender Hooks, also showing as part of Pioneering Women, which Ms Carey said was almost "an unofficial sequel to Starstruck".Starstruck is one of two Gillian Armstrong films screening as part of the showcase; the other being 1987 drama High Tide.  Tracey Moffatt was the first Australian Indigenous woman to make a feature film, but despite being screened at the Cannes Film Festival, Bedevil is her only feature. "She sort of moved away from filmmaking in the '90s into her art practice," Ms Carey said."She has such a small body of [film] work, but everything she has made is really fascinating and really unique in Australian filmmaking."Ms Carey said the stylised and striking film was the first, and until this year's XX, the only horror anthology film to be directed by a woman. A double feature screens two mid-length films that, Ms Carey said, looked "at women who consider themselves outsiders".She said Ana Kokkinos's debut film Only The Brave, which follows two pyromaniac teenage girls, is "intense filmmaking, as all of Ana's films are"."You forget, teenagers can be really angry. It's not all Big Steal [style] dating and high school proms." The second film in the double, Susan Lambert's 1983 heist film On Guard is "a real discovery", Ms Carey said, and featured Laurie McInnes on cinematography."It follows a group of feminist lesbian anarchists who are trying to raid this place call Utero, which is a fictional multinational corporation doing reproduction technology," she said.Lambert went on to make documentaries, including Tokyo Bound: Bondage Mistresses of Japan and Tyke Elephant Outlaw, featured at MIFF in 2001 and 2015.ABC Radio Melbourne is a media partner of the Melbourne International Film Festival.
Topics:
film-movies,


	
	women,


	
	feminism,


	
	carnivals-and-festivals,


	
	human-interest,


	
	melbourne-3000

    First posted 
    
      July 14, 2017 07:00:00
    
