  There is nothing like being in nature to make you feel small. 1,805 metres of altitude make Mt Buller seem a lot more than three hours away from Melbourne. The Victorian ski resort is the third busiest in Australia after Perisher and Thredbo. The main run can be shades of a rush-hour commute. Patronage is up 43 per cent in the past decade. Anecdotally it's due to interest from new migrant communities in Melbourne, especially Chinese and Indian Australians. The trick now is to convert snow-curious day trippers into active skiers and snowboarders. "Perpetual ski bum? I could call myself that," says ski patroller Andy Laidlaw. At 60, he gets emotional talking about the mountains. "They put their claws into you and don't let go." The great outdoors is not a bad office. Out here, with the punters gone, you can imagine it's your own private mountain. Pinned along the edge of a snowy road, the huskies' coats mirror a two-tone landscape of dark branches on white earth. The pack barks and howls in anticipation of dinnertime. One paces in a tight circle. Another two brawl for a brief instant. These animals seem tough and wild, far removed from pet dogs. Eighty per cent of them are rescues, still sometimes leery of humans. Ex-sled dog racer Brett Hadden, running beside his huskies, is a man who likes dogs better than people. "When I was a boy I saw The Call of the Wild and it inspired me to have this adventure." During the week Buller is a town early to bed, early to rise. The burger joint shuts at 7pm. Deserted exteriors speak of guests holed up by fireplaces or crashed out after exertion on the slopes. For the clocked-off among the 1,700 or so staff that work on the mountain, there are darts to be played … … beer to be sipped. And, in the balmy indoors, there are shorts and Hawaiian shirts to be worn. Except if you're a snow groomer. While the mountain sleeps, New Zealander Daniel Fergus makes his art. His beast of a machine grades the snow into a fine corduroy. "It helps to be a perfectionist in this job," says Fergus, grumbling about footprints in his work. Snow-making is to the snow economy what irrigation is to agriculture. "The ski industry is not at all frightened of climate change," says Colin Hackworth from the Australian Ski Areas Association. "We're not climate change deniers but we have a strategy in place. Snow-making is the same as any other technology. It's becoming more efficient and more able to make snow at higher temperatures." Daybreak brings a changing of the guard. Jimmy Hughes has been parking cars on Mt Buller for four decades in a logistical exercise that resembles a cross between a game of memory and a jigsaw puzzle with constantly moving pieces. "My mind is racing all the time," he says as he conducts this vehicular orchestra. On a weekend the stream of cars can wind for kilometres. "It's not like Coles where everything's square. Here it's all curves and angles. We chock 'em in mirror to mirror." On the slopes the snowboarders are taking their places, in various stages of experience and uprightness. It's thought 3 to 5 per cent of Australians participate in snow sports. The industry estimates only about 1 to 2 per cent of visitors to Australian ski resorts come from overseas. That could change as winter sports become more popular in China. Bluebird conditions they are not. Human forms are dwarfed by the expanse of white. Like tiny figurines, they fade in and out behind the mist. The world has flipped from colour to black and white. Riders dangle like frosted ornaments from the chairlift. Moments later, it grinds into stillness, as the weather reclaims the mountain for itself. Blink and you could mistake the contraption for an abandoned post-apocalyptic relic. For many of those who populate this icy playground, there is no leaving the mountain. "We're the kind of people who work here all season and then, for our holidays, go to a snowy place," chuckles ski patroller Ed Mahon. Like surfers chasing the eternal summer. It's always winter somewhere. 
Topics:
community-and-society,


	
	human-interest,


	
	mount-buller-3723,


	
	vic
