Choose an aspect, theme or personality from Australian history — it can be anything. What would you choose? Would you look to your own history or do a bit of digging? What kind of stories would you uncover?For the 20th anniversary of Canberra's National Portrait Gallery, 10 female artists were given 10 metres of wall space to create artworks that respond to this prompt.The resulting exhibition is So Fine: Contemporary Women Artists Make Australian History. Most artists looked to the past: Carol McGregor's possum skin cloaks reconstruct Aboriginal histories that have been riven, broken and ignored; Bern Emmerichs' painted ceramics humorously bring to life the 180 convict women who sailed to Tasmania in 1841; and Fiona McMonagle's watercolours depict children sent to Australia between the 1920s and late 1960s, under Britain's child migration scheme.Linde Ivimey, on the other hand, looked to history currently being made, with a tribute to Australian scientists currently making breakthroughs in Antarctica.Artists Pamela See (Xue Mei-Ling), Shirley Purdie, Leah King-Smith, Nusra Latif Qureshi, Nicola Dickson and Valerie Kirk also contributed work for the exhibition. "Throughout Australian history, the stories have been about the exploits of men and have been told by men, and some very powerful images have emerged in art around those stories," said Sarah Engledow, who curated the exhibition alongside fellow National Portrait Gallery curator Christine Clark."So when we question our national myths and national self conceptions, we're relying on a small body of images from a small cross-section of our community. "In So Fine we're seeking to broaden that ... we're saying: 'Here are our stories'."McGregor said: "I think my first impression when I walked into the exhibition space was just the immense power of stories."But these are for the most part intricate, quiet stories."I wanted to bring together subtle ruminations on Australian history, not just 'Me versus you'," Engledow said."I wanted something that asserted particular stories and histories and points of view in a gentler way, in which the dextrous skill of the artist was foregrounded." Engledow said that in putting together the exhibition, she and Clark "wanted [to create] something that would be quite discursive — where the viewer would stop and go: 'I never knew that,' or 'I didn't think of it this way'."In the series Making Chinese Shadows, for example, a lesser-known chapter of the national story is referenced in 16 paper cut silhouette portraits of Chinese Australians who thrived in Australia up until the introduction of the White Australia Policy in 1901, which limited immigration to "white" people.Brisbane artist and scholar Pamela See, who was born in 1979 to a father who had arrived in Australia after the demise of that policy, said: "I thought the burgeoning of the Chinese community happened in the 80s."I wasn't aware that there was so many Chinese Australians before that, during the late 19th century, and I thought it was really important to honour that."One of her cut-outs depicts successful businesswoman Ho Lup Mun, who moved to Australia in 1891 with her husband. After he died, she took over his apothecary on Celestial Avenue in Melbourne."She became the wholesale supplier of a lot of Chinese herbal products and she also started to do a lot of the diagnoses herself," See said.  Mrs Lup Mun was famously charitable, and adopted many orphans."She was known as 'cepore' — the slang Cantonese term for 'boss lady'," See said.Mei Quong Tart (1850-1903), also depicted in her series, arrived in Australia as a child migrant and closed his life as a lauded businessman and philanthropist, having made a fortune on a small gold claim and set up a tea import operation and a popular tea room on Sydney's King Street."[The White Australia Policy] must've been devastating for the community," See said. "They were already facing some level of discrimination, and many went home."While Chinese tin miners outnumbered their European counterparts 10:1 in northeast Tasmania in the late 19th century, by 1930 the Chinese population of the town of Weldborough was reduced to a single person."It's quite sad that with these kind of policies, not only is there the physical impact on the population, but there's the erasure of their contributions," See said."Exhibitions like this go a small way to mend that."  Appraising the line-up for So Fine, Engledow said: "We chose artists whose worked we liked; work that was intricate, delicate, and yet meaningful."Work doesn't come much more intricate, or delicate, than Linde Ivimey's little mannequins, painstakingly crafted from welded steel frames, tiny animal bones and gut, hand-dyed fabric and ornamental objects ranging from feathers to buttons and gemstones. "It's an enormously long and patient process that starts with boiling down bones from meals that she ate," Engledow said.Ivimey has previously made work inspired by Antarctic explorers Sir Douglas Mawson and Robert Scott, but for So Fine she turned her attention to a different kind of pioneer. Her collection of outlandish figures represents a group of scientists she met during a 2011 trip to Antarctica to mark the centenary of Mawson's expedition.Ivimey later learnt that the scientists she met (Kate Kiefer, Marilyn Ball, Dana Bergstrom and Jack Egerton) had just made a significant breakthrough in a study of how climate change was impacting old growth cushion plants. "One hundred years ago, those women weren't welcome on the ice. I was able to take a piece out of history, a current contemporary history, and present it," she said.Carol McGregor described her work as a way to break the "Great Australian Silence" described by WEH Stanner in his 1968 Boyer lecture. "A lot of my work talks about hidden histories from an Indigenous point of view," she said.McGregor, a Wathaurong-Scottish woman, is engaged in a long-term project to reactivate possum skin cloak-making and wearing in South-East Queensland. In her artist statement for So Fine, she said: "I began making contemporary possum skin cloaks as a tangible way to connect to my Aboriginal grandmother, Annie."Possum skin cloaks were not only items of dress ... they were important cultural items and affirmations of your identity. The inside of your cloak was inscribed with personal designs, tribal patterning, your totem, maybe maps of country. Wearing the cloaks with the design side out [meant] people knew who you were and where you were from."Traditionally, you were given a few skins when you were born and then they were incised with sharp stones or mussel shells, and your designs were rubbed into these cuts with ochres and fats. You were usually buried in your cloak." In So Fine, McGregor presents a possum-skin cloak inspired by Bruce Pascoe's 2014 book Dark Emu: Black Seeds, which dispels the myth that Aboriginal people were purely hunter-gatherers. Dark Emu had a big impact on McGregor."It really hit home reading this book ... how Australia was not 'terra nullius', but was a land cultivated by people who developed sustainable and highly successful agricultural and land management techniques," she said.  "Over 100,000 years of this experimentation and knowledge has really literally gone. So I tried to highlight the diversity, guardianship and knowledges that were plentiful in the pre-colonial [era] and that was largely seen and ignored."McGregor described So Fine as "a little diamond, because it just radiates and it's very intense. Some of the moments are really personal ... others are really illuminating"."There's a lot of mediums and a diverse amount of techniques that all the artists have used and yet when you walk through this exhibition and [see all] these textures, the overall feeling is quite incredible."Each story is quite powerful." So Fine: Contemporary Women Artists Make Australian History runs until October 1 at the National Portrait Gallery, Canberra.