A pink lake in Western Australia's Midwest region has become a drawcard for Chinese tourists.A trip to the pink lake at Hutt Lagoon, north of Geraldton, has become something of a status symbol for wealthy Chinese who want something unique compared to the mainstream destinations such as Sydney and the Great Barrier Reef. The tide of tourists began as a trickle in 2014 when Wendy Mann, from Geraldton Air Charter, employed a Chinese worker to help with marketing using Chinese social media sites such as Weibo and WeChat.She was just the second business in WA to complete the China Ready program to ensure the services she provided met the standards required by the Chinese Government.In 2014 Ms Mann flew just 16 Chinese tourists on charter flights for the whole 12 months, but in the past three weeks alone has carried more than 500."They're fascinated by the pink lake. They just love the colour of that. It's become a status symbol in China to have seen the pink lake," she said."When you get close to the pink lake and you're actually over it, you hear them go 'Ohhhh'. They love seeing it."Ms Mann now employs three Chinese-born, Australian-trained pilots, as well as an interpreter to ensure her guests can converse in their native language.Progress Midwest economic development officer Han Jie moved to Australia from China 10 years ago.She said Chinese visitors were cash rich and time poor, and fascinated by Australia's pristine environment.  "We take the sunset for granted but the Chinese are really fascinated by our sunset," she said."Even the Milky Way — we can see it from our backyard, but for the Chinese it's very difficult and for them, they never see any horizon."Ms Jie said recording the experience and sharing it on social media was as important as seeing the sights."The Chinese always want to show off on WeChat and say 'Have you ever seen a pink lake?' That is something for them to show off, something that is unique. It's special. That's why they like it." The Abrolhos Islands off the Geraldton coast are also becoming more popular, and visitors are keen to explore other sights once they are there.Tourism Geraldton chairman Scott Cogar said it was welcome news for an economy still reeling from the decline of the mining sector."People are now refocusing on what can do the most good most quickly, and tourism is definitely emerging as a really significant opportunity here," he said."It looks like we're going to have an exponential increase [of Chinese tourists] this year, and I personally believe that an increase of four or five-fold is possible this year, versus last year."Tourism currently contributes $150 million a year to the local economy, and Mr Cogar is hoping by 2021 that will increase to $200 million.Tourism Australia is predicting that nationally, 42 per cent of all visitors to Australia will come from mainland China, and it appears Geraldton and the Midwest are well poised to capitalise on that.