Malcolm Turnbull has vehemently denied he or his government is anti-Chinese in a special edition of Q&A that featured the Australian Prime Minister fielding wide-ranging questions from the audience and host Virginia Trioli.Mr Turnbull was required to explain his position on a variety of the issues at the forefront of Australian contemporary politics, including the intake of asylum seekers, giving Indigenous Australians a voice in political matters and embattled Labor senator Sam Dastyari.He may not have strayed far from his previously known positions on such topics, but the audience's questions ensured the Prime Minister's views were clearly laid out for the public to scrutinise.There were confronting exchanges with an Iranian asylum seeker and Indigenous Australians demanding a solid plan going forward, and an outburst of disbelieving laughter from observers when Mr Turnbull claimed to be close with US President Donald Trump.Questioned about whether the timing of new espionage laws were designed to put pressure on the Labor Party over Mr Dastyari, who has been accused of improper dealings with China, Mr Turnbull said the timeframe was coincidental. "Obviously the Dastyari scandal is very alive at the moment. It is a shocking state of affairs Bill Shorten is allowing somebody to remain in the Labor Party and in the Senate who quite clearly does not put Australia first," Mr Turnbull said."Dastyari has quite plainly been acting in the interests of another government or another power. "It is extraordinary that Bill Shorten, who wants to be PM of Australia, is failing to put Australia's interests first."Pressed on whether information about Mr Dastyari giving a tip-off to wealthy Chinese donor Huang Xiangmo came from federal intelligence agencies, Mr Turnbull denied ASIO was involved."I can say to you the information about Dastyari and his efforts to tip-off Mr Huang that he could be under surveillance from ASIO, and the advice that he gave Mr Huang to put their phones inside so they could not be overheard, that story that went to the media did not come from ASIO," the Prime Minister said.He also said his Government's efforts to protect Australia from foreign interference were not based on anti-China sentiment."Let me say the suggestion that I or my government or Australia generally is anti-Chinese is outrageous. Absolutely outrageous," Mr Turnbull said. "Every country is entitled to defend its national interest. "There are a million Australians of Chinese ancestry, a million. You could not imagine modern Australia, the most successful multicultural society in the world, without them, and among those 1 million Australians with Chinese ancestry is our granddaughter. "So the proposition that someone whose granddaughter calls him Ye Ye is anti-Chinese is absurd." "Where are we going to go now, Prime Minister?" asked an Indigenous audience member after pointing out the Uluru Statement from the Heart had been shot down by the Cabinet."I understand very keenly what was behind the Uluru declaration. And the call to have more of a say, for recognition in every respect," Mr Turnbull said. "It's very important to speak the truth and say what you honestly feel. I do not believe what would in effect be a third chamber of parliament available only to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people is consistent with our constitution."Another member of the audience, who was part of the constitutional dialogue process, asked why he would not respect their proposal to take it to a referendum."I have to be honest with you about this, I don't think it's a good idea. And if it were put up in a referendum it would go down in flames. That's my view," he said."I think it's very important tonight that we respect the Aboriginal members of the House and they are there, proud First Australians, powerful voices with 60,000 years of history in our parliament. And I respect them and I think all Australians should too."Questioned by a man who fled Iran only for his ship to sink, causing the deaths of about 200 people on board about whether the people on Manus Island were getting a fair go, Mr Turnbull reiterated his views on boat-borne asylum seekers."I am not going to do what Labor did and abandon the security of our borders and see thousands of people drowning at sea. "We are a generous, compassionate nation but the refugees that come here are chosen by Australia, not by people smugglers. That is Australian sovereignty."He said a deal to move some of the men on Manus to New Zealand would have sent the wrong message to illegal people smugglers."We have about 1,600 people between Nauru and Manus who have refugee status," he said."If 150 went to New Zealand, that is all New Zealand has ever offered to take, 150, that would be used by the people smugglers as marketing and it would be used as essentially a backdoor to Australia. "The advantage of the American deal is that it is clearly a one-off. It does not apply to people who come subsequently." Mr Turnbull drew chuckles from the live audience when he said he and Mr Trump got along well, but he did hint he had spoken to the US President about his relationship to the Muslim world."I've discussed the Middle East peace process with him very recently, when we last met in Manila," Mr Turnbull said."And that I guess answers the question. And as far as racism is concerned, as you know, I have zero tolerance for racism. Absolutely zero tolerance for racism."
Topics:
government-and-politics,


	
	turnbull-malcolm,


	
	liberals,


	
	indigenous-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander,


	
	immigration,


	
	community-and-society,


	
	australia
