A lawyer for University of Technology Sydney (UTS) Professor Chongyi Feng believes the Australian permanent residency holder will not be able to leave China and return to Sydney "in the short term".The Chinese studies specialist, who has lived in Australia for more than two decades and has permanent residency, said he had twice been blocked from flying back to Sydney.Dr Feng's published research over a long academic career has touched upon sensitive areas, including China's political and human rights situation. Human rights advocates, who closely monitor China's freedom of expression, say the case appears to be part of a broader stifling of contrary voices under President Xi Jinping."It's extremely worrying that China attempts to extend its influence on overseas Chinese scholars and threatens to silence them", Patrick Poon, an Amnesty International researcher based in Hong Kong, said. According to his lawyer Chen Jinxue, Professor Feng was in southern China for three weeks on a research trip, and has been questioned by state security police in a Guangzhou hotel for the past two days. He has not been placed under any formal administrative restrictions, such as detention or residential surveillance — a method that has been used to detain human rights lawyers for months under the current Mr Xi administration. Mr Chen said he believed Dr Feng "won't be able to leave in the short term", saying in the past some other Chinese academics were barred from leaving the country for months and even years. The ABC understands Dr Feng has told friends he needs to stay in Guangzhou for "at least a couple more days", and is "extremely grateful" for the support of the Australian Government and academic colleagues. "From our understanding he has freedom of movement, he has complete freedom of communication and we are in regular contact with him," UTS Vice Chancellor Attila Brungs said. "He seemed surprisingly upbeat."The head of UTS' Australia-China Research Institute and former foreign minister Bob Carr said he had made private representations on Professor Feng's behalf while in Beijing with a UTS study delegation. Dr Feng, a former head of Chinese studies at UTS, is not part of Mr Carr's institute. A spokeswoman for China's Foreign Ministry in Beijing said she was not aware of the details of the case, but noted from reports Dr Feng "is a Chinese citizen holding a Chinese passport".Australian Justice Minister Michael Keenan said the Government had contacted Chinese representatives about the case, but noted Dr Feng was a permanent resident, not an Australian citizen. 