Former High Court Judge Michael Kirby has backed the Safe Schools program, saying Australia has moved beyond a "don't ask, don't tell" philosophy.His comments come after a petition against the program with more than 17,000 signatures from the Australian Chinese community was tabled in the New South Wales Parliament.Safe Schools is a federally funded anti-bullying program aimed at helping lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and/or intersex (LGBTI) school students and is administered by state and territory education departments.Mr Kirby, who is gay and has been with his partner for 47 years, said his childhood was an incredibly lonely time and the support offered by the Safe Schools program would have been welcomed. "In the big assembly at my school, no-one spoke to me, no-one spoke of my sexuality and that was a very lonely time in my life and I've got to this point in my life and I'm speaking up for those who are sitting in those assemblies," he said. "At school we're vulnerable and we deserve support. That's what the Safe Schools program is designed to give. "You can have debates about particular aspects of it and tweak the model, but the notion that you say nothing about this is quite wrong." Mr Kirby said the Australian Chinese community should know that Australia has moved on from not discussing homosexuality."That's the world in which I grew up, schools were not the place to discuss it, universities were not the place to discuss it, the workplace was not the place to discuss it and that's a formula for continuation of the prejudice that has existed," he said. "That's the don't ask don't tell philosophy. And I think we've moved beyond that in Australia and the Chinese community and members who've signed that petition, I support their right to express their opinion, but they've got to be told that in this country we've moved on from that."Mr Kirby has also spoken out against the same-sex marriage plebiscite, saying he fears that the public vote would stir hatred towards vulnerable young homosexual people. That comes on the back of Lateline poll in which more than 83,000 people voted on whether the Government should hold the plebiscite or go straight to a parliamentary vote. On Facebook, 87 per cent voted that the issue should skip the plebiscite and be put to parliament. 