University students are beginning a new academic year in Australia, but many are facing growing uncertainty about the cost of their tertiary education.The Federal Government wants to cut its funding to universities by 20 per cent, which students fear will lead to a big increase in course fees.Curtin University's student guild president, Jason Giancono, said students will be "punished" if the Government passes its university reform bill."Students this year have no idea how much their degree is going to cost them," he said.  "What I would like to see is a government that increases funding for universities, instead of cutting it."But Education Minister Christopher Pyne maintains the proposals are fair. "All we are asking students to do with this reform bill is to pay about half each with the taxpayer – 50/50," Mr Pyne told Parliament this week. An amended university reform bill passed in the House of Representatives on Wednesday. It will go before the Senate in March. Under the proposed changes, limits on domestic student fees would be removed from 2016 and government subsidies paid toward the cost of the course would be reduced. Universities and higher education institutions would also determine the fees they charge.Foreign students are not expected to be impacted by the reforms, which apply only to Australian students.However, Australian students will always pay less than their international counterparts.The percentage of international students in Australia is nearly three times the global average, according to a recent HSBC report.Students from China, India and Korea make up over 47 per cent of total international student enrolments in universities across Australia.And it is a major money earner."It's a $15 billion per year that students bring into Australia, but only about one third of that money actually goes to the university," said Gary Sanderfield, from the University of Sydney."The rest of that money actually goes out to the market of forms of jobs and tourism."About 88,000 Chinese students enrolled in Australian universities last year, even though many Chinese parents rank Australia fairly low on the quality of education. "China's growing middle class means that it will continue to represent a significant part of the international student market globally," HSBC head of retail banking and wealth management Graham Heunis said."Attracting Chinese student intake will be a key factor in maintaining education's role as a key export sector for Australia."The HSBC report, called The Value of Education: Springboard for Success, ranked Australia as the most expensive country for study and living expenses. It found it costs an international student around $US42,000 a year to study and live in Australia. Singapore, the United States and the United Kingdom were the next most expensive of the 15 destinations examined, with average annual costs of more than $35,000. Costs in the least expensive destination, India, were less than one fifth of those in Australia. But the fall in the Australian dollar is helping."It means international students can have more access to Australia," HSBC economist Paul Bloxham told Talk About It."It makes us more competitive and I think it's already seeing a pick up in international student interest in Australia." The Australian dollar has fallen about 13 per cent against the US currency over the past year.  Australian universities consistently rank among the top in the world. In the most recent rankings, eight of Australia's 41 universities made it into the top 100 worldwide. Global education expert Jamil Salmi said Australian universities have improved over the past two decades to be competitive with their overseas counterparts. "Even though you [Australia] are a huge country, population wise you are a small country. So when you look at the number of highly ranked universities relative to your population, you do better than the US or UK," he said.The tertiary institutions which rank highly on the Top Universities list are Australian National University, the University of Melbourne, the University of Sydney, the University of Queensland, the University of New South Wales, Monash University, the University of Western Australia and the University of Adelaide. Watch the full episode of #TalkAboutIt on ABC iview.