In Zimbabwe, about 90 per cent of the population has an unofficial job — they work in the informal economy. You see them in city streets selling fruit on the pavement or tearing up scrap metal or selling phone chargers at intersections.Anything to make a living.The country has no currency. It was jettisoned after hyperinflation under former President Robert Mugabe rendered it worthless. Instead, you can pay for food with US dollars, or euro, or South African rand. Even Australian dollars or Chinese yuan will be accepted.The economy is in a parlous state after nearly 40 years of rule by Mr Mugabe's Zanu-PF party. And yet the party is still in power, even after Mr Mugabe was forced to step down last November. In fact, now it's promising to fix the problems it created.Mr Mugabe's former vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa was installed to replace him, and he won an election in his own right on July 30.But the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) challenged the outcome in court, alleging widespread electoral fraud.MDC leader Nelson Chamisa argued that the court should declare him the winner.Zimbabwe's Constitutional Court threw out the case, saying Mr Chamisa failed to provide sufficient evidence of irregularities."I hear your cries & feel your pain," Mr Chamisa tweeted after the ruling.He told supporters he wanted to "rescue our beautiful Zimbabwe from the jaws of poverty, corruption & dishonesty". Zimbabwe is a country divided.Mr Mnangagwa just scraped over the line in the election with less than 51 per cent of the vote.On the streets of Harare, people spoke of their disappointment in the ruling."Nothing will change, even the judiciary has been captured by the incumbent," one man who declined to give his name said as he walked home from work."Our suffering will continue," said another who wanted to stay anonymous.But others urged the country to unite, echoing a tweet from the President, Mr Mnangagwa."Let us all now put our differences behind us. It is time to move forward together," he tweeted.The country's young people are sometimes choosing to do just that.They had only ever known one president, and Mr Mugabe's departure filled them with hope. Actor Tendaiishe Chitima has been living and working in South Africa for years, but she is thinking about coming home permanently to Zimbabwe."It's time," she said. "I am positive about what can happen now."The country needs serious reforms if it is to come in from the cold and be welcomed back into the international community.