Julia deVille, 36, is one of 14 Australians — 13 alive, one dead — who've consented to donating their corpse for something unusual.It will potentially be put on public display in a major worldwide travelling exhibition, currently in Australia.The taxidermist from Melbourne calls her decision "poetic", given her job. "It'd be hypocritical if I was precious about my corpse. If I can justify doing this to animals as a taxidermist, the same should be done to me." When animal rights campaigners protest her taxidermy, asking if she'd do this to a human, she says: "Now I can respond saying 'actually, yes!' "The Body Worlds Vital exhibition — at Sydney's Town Hall until March 31 — has been seen 47 million people worldwide and 16,909 people have given living consent to donate their body to make it possible.Donors answer questions such as whether their whole body can be "interpreted as anatomical works of art".DeVille, who became a donor in 2002 and has taxidermy artwork on permanent display at MONA, agreed to everything."They asked how you'd feel if your body was depicted in a religious scene, like on a crucifix, or if you were transformed into a mythological creature — half human, half animal," she says."As an artist, I believe in giving full artistic control. I don't have a questionnaire asking my animals if they'd like to be stuffed." Her donation comes with one caveat — from her mum."The deal is, if I die before her, I won't have it done. She wouldn't want to encounter photos on the internet."Sydney's Kristy Hawkins, 35, is another living donor. "I thought it wasteful after you've died to have your body burned or buried. My body isn't me: once I'm gone, I'm an organ donor first, then I want my body going to science."Although both mother and daughter believe in God, her mum had a surprising reaction: "She was so impressed with the exhibition, she signed up as a donor herself!" Hawkins says.Dr Angelina Whalley travelled to Sydney from Germany for the Sydney opening of Body Worlds. Her husband, Dr Gunther von Hagens, in 1977 invented the "plastination" process that's used to make the bodies displayable.When a donor dies, the body must be kept cool and, as soon as possible, transported to Whalley's laboratory in Guben, Germany. Donors carry a card in their purse, but next of kin can (and sometimes do) override the donor's wishes.Most bodies are used for science, not exhibitions. Whalley's institute then provides specimens to those who confirm they'll use the body solely for medical teaching purposes.Nevertheless, with 10 Body Worlds exhibitions currently showing globally, there are public display opportunities, although 5 to 8 per cent of potential donors decline being displayed and donate solely for scientific purposes.Selection for display depends on factors including how much time between death and arrival at the laboratory and whether the person died of natural causes, preventing an autopsy.The plastination process — to get a corpse display ready — takes at least a year. To prevent decay, the corpse is injected with formaldehyde, which is removed two months to a year later. Then the corpse is put in alcohol and painstakingly dissected, taking 500 hours.Plastination occurs through a vacuum process, then polymer moves into the space where water was removed. Displaying "plastinated" bodies, however, hasn't been without its controversies."Initially, people considered it a gruesome horror show just to entertain rather than educate," Whalley says. In some countries like Japan, displaying a corpse was extremely taboo — even forbidden on TV. But, she says, there's a universal cross-cultural reaction when people see the exhibition: "The authenticity makes them reflect on their own lives. It's quite emotional."The controversies aren't just over the use of real corpses — but also how they were sourced.A copycat exhibition, Real Bodies, was in Sydney's Moore Park last year, but it prompted a Change.org petition in protest and has spurred a parliamentary report, tabled in December, calling for a ban on bodies entering Australia without living/next of kin consent.The major difference between Real Bodies and Body Worlds Vital is the fact that Real Bodies used "unclaimed" Chinese bodies donated by relevant authorities. This raised the question about whether the practice, although currently legal, is ethical. Real Bodies declined an ABC interview but highlighted this statement on their website: "The specimens were donated legally, were never prisoners of any kind, showed no signs of trauma or injury, were free of infectious disease, and died of natural causes." The company's president Tom Zaller has compared it to Egyptian mummies not knowing they were going to be displayed publicly.Allegations of using executed Chinese prisoners are something von Hagens has himself faced. In 2004, German magazine Der Spiegel reported that he'd agreed to return seven corpses to China after admitting living consent wasn't given. It was thought the corpses may have been executed prisoners: two were allegedly found with skull bullet holes.But Body Worlds denies this, saying it has only ever operated by the living consent policy."The allegations were investigated and proven to be unfounded by the highest court in Germany. Body Worlds and the Institute for Plastination won interim injunctions in Germany against several representatives of the press to prevent further dissemination of false statements."Simon Longstaff, the executive director of the Australian Ethics Centre, told the ABC: "How we think about the ethical status of a person's cadaver shouldn't be determined by our beliefs about the possibility of existence beyond death. To use a person's dead body without their consent shows a lack of respect for the intrinsic dignity of the person they were when alive. It's not that these people are sitting around in the after-life waiting to be offended. It's more that they were once a living person, and the ethical obligations remain."Julia deVille disagrees. "When a body's dead, it's just dead matter. I don't necessarily think the person who died would care — especially if family aren't around anymore. There's too much preciousness in the human conditioning we place on rituals around dead bodies. We should focus more on helping the living."These ethics change over time, Whalley says."Not long ago people didn't have individual graves. We don't, for example, know where Mozart is buried because corpses then were put in mass graves. "It's certainly unethical today not to obtain living consent — there's no reason to neglect that."And has she donated her own body? "Of course!" she says. "It's actually a relief to know exactly what'll happen to my body. It means I'll continue in death doing what I did my whole life. "I do hope, though," she adds, "it doesn't happen too soon."Gary Nunn is a freelance journalist. Twitter: @garynunn1