Western Australia has work to do if it wants to attract further investment from China and capitalise on its next phase of growth, a key business group has warned.The message comes after a peak in Chinese investment generated by the state's mining construction boom. There were hopes the void left by the mining slowdown could be filled by China's insatiable demand for food, but WA must revitalise its image, Australia China Business Council president Adam Handley said, because some overseas investors thought it was simply a dig-it-up-and-ship-it-out economy."There is a perception amongst some that we are just a dusty mining town and we have nothing more to offer — I think that perception is slowing changing," he said.We really are looking for Western Australia to be a niche high-end supplier of high quality, clean and green foods. "Branding is an issue. I think it is important we project what the state has to offer and that is more than just mining."Mining is a very important part of our heritage and our history and our future, but we have to project the clean, green, wonderful environment that we live in and the fantastic opportunities that generates for foreign investment in agriculture." In the past, Western Australia established itself as the home of Chinese investment, attracting more than $100 billion over the past six to eight years. Between 2008 and 2012, more than 70 per cent of China's state-owned investment in Australia was spent in WA. Half the amount of private cash coming ashore also flowed to the state.But that share of the investment pie has shrunk, and Mr Handley said it was time for WA to broaden its offering."Are we going to feed the burgeoning middle class in China 100 per cent with Australia beef? No, we are not, that is not realistic," he said. A significant growth in tourism and infrastructure [is] necessary to make WA a desirable tourist destination internationally. "We really are looking for Western Australia to be a niche high-end supplier of high-quality, clean and green foods," he said. One key barrier was lifted this week. Australia signed a deal with China to supply it with up to a million head of cattle, making it the first nation to export feeder and slaughter cattle to the country.Federal Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce said it would provide huge opportunities, and while Mr Handley agreed it was a significant step forward, he said hurdles remained."There are still a number of smaller steps to be made to bring the deal to fruition [before we] see live starting to trade into China," Mr Handley said."There is still some work to be done on the Chinese and Australian governments' idea in relation to veterinary procedures, and work on the Chinese side in relation to Australia's livestock welfare system."Plus we need the Chinese to build the receiver facilities required to receive Australian cattle."Others said agriculture would not be enough to fill the void created by a slowdown in mining investment. Lee Rossetto from law firm Minter Ellison said there was huge potential for growth in sectors other than mining and agriculture. "We will see continued growth in investment in a whole range of infrastructure assets, property assets," he said. "A significant growth in tourism and infrastructure [is] necessary to make WA a desirable tourist destination internationally." He said the mining slowdown meant it was critical for WA to diversify its offering to overseas investors. "As we are in a bit of a transitional phase in our economic cycle, we do [need to] look to build our capability and profile in a range of other areas, to diversify and broaden our economic base," Mr Rossetto said."That is why I think a focus on tourism and higher education present great opportunities."These opportunities will be attractive to foreign investors and government and other stakeholders would welcome that." In the meantime, the first shipment of cattle could leave for China within months.
Topics:
business-economics-and-finance,


	
	mining-industry,


	
	economic-trends,


	
	trade,


	
	livestock,


	
	wa,


	
	perth-6000
