Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has questioned an article written about her meeting with China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi on the sidelines of the G20 in Argentina last month, denying she blamed the Australian media for souring the relationship between the two countries.The article, by Australian Strategic Policy Institute's Cyber Analyst Fergus Ryan, stated, "Julie Bishop was playing a dangerous game when she privately blamed the Australian media's 'negative reports' for adversely affecting Australia–China relations during her meeting with her Chinese counterpart". He was referring to the official statement released by the Chinese Foreign Ministry that said Ms Bishop conceded the media hadn't helped the relationship between the two nations. "In recent times, due to some negative reports from Australia's domestic media, the Australia-China relationship has been affected," the statement from the Chinese Foreign Ministry said."I [Ms Bishop] wish to clarify that these reports are very inaccurate and they completely do not represent the Australian Government's position." However, Ms Bishop attacked Mr Ryan's report and his suggestion that there were discrepancies about what the ministers said during the meeting.  "It would be in the interests of accurate reporting if you contacted my office to find out what I actually said rather than relying on a 3rd hand version of what was not said! #justsaying," she wrote on Twitter.  "I'm saying that you should go to the source — I was at the meeting, I know what was said and by whom, yet you don't bother to contact my office. Odd."The ABC contacted Ms Bishop's office to clarify what was said last month."I reject the assertion that I blamed the Australian media for the status of the Australia-China relationship. I have never done so," she said in a statement to the ABC. While she denied blaming the Australia media, Ms Bishop did not respond to questions about whether the Chinese Foreign Ministry statement was misleading, or outline exactly what was said.The ABC put several questions to her office which were not answered, including whether she did talk about the Australian media during the meeting and whether her counterpart blamed journalists' reporting for inflaming tensions. It's not the first time Australia and China have presented different opinions about last month's meeting. At the time, Julie Bishop described the meeting as a "very warm, and candid and a constructive discussion". But the official statement from the Chinese Foreign Ministry said Foreign Minister Wang Yi told Julie Bishop that Australia needed to "take off tinted glasses [and] see China's development from a positive perspective" if it wanted to improve diplomatic relations.China's version of the meeting did not mention any details about Julie Bishop raising anxieties about militarisation in the South China Sea.China has raised concerns about the Australian press on a number of occasions, both publicly and behind closed doors, the Communist Party frustrated the media cannot be pulled into line. Earlier this month, the Chinese consul-general in Perth, Lei Kezhong, accused the Australian press of making up stories.In an opinion piece published in the West Australian newspaper, he said journalists had  "repeatedly fabricated stories about so-called Chinese influence and infiltration in Australia".His comments were criticised by Attorney General Christian Porter, who backed the Australian media's coverage of foreign interference.While Liberal MP Andrew Hastie, who is the Chair of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security, leapt to the defence of the Australian press, during a speech to Parliament about foreign interference last month."Our democracy works only if we have a free press that can publish information that serves the public interest," he said.
Topics:
world-politics,


	
	foreign-affairs,


	
	government-and-politics,


	
	bishop-julie,


	
	china,


	
	australia
