Audio recordings played in a Beirut court appear to back up claims by an Australian man that he was not part of a plot to blow up a commercial flight departing Sydney. The WhatsApp voice messages are between Amer Khayat and his brother Mahmoud, who is due to face trial in Sydney next year over an alleged plot to destroy an Etihad passenger jet in July last year.Another brother, Khaled, has also been charged and a fourth brother, Tayek, is an ISIS commander who was captured earlier this year in Iraq.The recordings were played in a military tribunal in Beirut, where authorities are trying to work out whether Amer was involved in the plot.The Australian Federal Police (AFP) says Amer didn't know anything about the plan to blow up the jet, though he was detained by Lebanese authorities shortly after he arrived last year and will be in custody until February at least.In one message, Mahmoud tells Amer: "Please I want to send with you 15kg and you will take 25kg because Etihad gives you 40kg, because I need to send a lot of gifts."In another, Mahmoud says the brothers can not pay for Amer's flight, but they will send him money once he is in Lebanon.The AFP says the bomb was removed from Amer's luggage at check-in by his brothers, because his bags were too heavy. It is alleged the bomb was hidden inside a meat grinder and possibly also inside a child's doll.Amer's lawyer, Joceline Adib Al-Rahi, said this latest evidence helps her client. She said there's certainly no evidence of his involvement in a sinister plot."Today, all we heard on WhatsApp was positive for Amer. We heard how he booked the ticket, how he paid for the ticket, how much weight he was allowed to carry, and that he took leave," Ms Al-Rahi said."He's a regular person bringing along gifts and aiming to return."Ms Al-Rahi said Amer was not sure whether he'd been betrayed by his brothers, or whether the plot to blow up the plane was a fabrication by authorities. Amer said he had been estranged from his brothers until shortly before he was due to fly to Lebanon in July 2017.He said he'd been a drug user and his brothers disapproved of his lifestyle.The tribunal chairman asked whether he was surprised that his brothers were suddenly interested in his travel arrangements — even driving him to the airport and walking with him to check-in.Amer said he was intrigued, and wondered about the excess of attention.Lebanese authorities also presented a letter allegedly downloaded from Amer's phone. In the letter, the writer tells "mum" that he "did very wrong" and "wanted to rest". Amer said the letter was not a suicide note, or a statement of regret about the bomb plot, because it was planted on his phone by Lebanese intelligence.He said it was not his writing, and could not have been to his mother because she died in 2010.The 38-year-old Lebanese-Australian citizen said he had gone to Lebanon to "become a man" by reconnecting with his family and finally getting clean from drugs.Amer broke down before the end of the hearing, shouting at the tribunal members that he wanted to return to Australia.He had to be restrained by soldiers as he pleaded with the panel: "What I want is my Australian passport back. I want to go back to my country. Australia is my country I have nothing to do with this country. When I die I want to be buried next to my daughter, who's buried in Australia."He will remain in custody until his next appearance before the tribunal in February next year. His brothers in Australia will stand trial in the NSW supreme court next year.