Khaled Sabsabi has never been able to shake the urgent rhythm of drums. "My earliest recollection of growing up as a child in [Tripoli, Northern Lebanon] is hearing drums and ceremony on the street and not knowing what it was," he says.The sound of ceremonial percussion announced the presence of Sufism — a dimension of Islam that is interested in mysticism and pluralism and has had a profound influence on art, architecture and literature.This sonic memory has echoed through Sabsabi's work ever since."It wasn't until I returned [to Lebanon] in 2002 on a fellowship and reconnected with some family members who [practiced] Sufism that I was slowly introduced to it and started to grow and understand more," Sabsabi, now 53, tells ABC."This sense of coming and going is a metaphor for Sufi thought — it's about the inner and the outer, the seen and the unseen." He stops to reflect on this."As human beings, we all need some sort of anchor in terms of who we are and this place we live in. Sufism offers me a way to think things through." Sabsabi is speaking to the ABC from Western Sydney, where he has lived, worked, and in some ways responded to community, for four decades. In 2011, he won the Blake Prize for Naqshbandi Greenacre Engagement (2010), a three-channel video work that revolves around a group of Naqshbandi Sufi Muslims praying in a Greenacre scout hall. The group's melodic chanting, accompanied by whimpers from restless toddlers, unfolds against beige walls and regulation-blue carpet. It's a study in one of Sabsabi's greatest talents as an artist: the ability to re-imagine even the most humdrum setting as a portal to the divine.Earlier this month, the Perth Institute of Contemporary Art (PICA) launched Sabsabi's largest-ever survey exhibition, titled A Self Portrait. Curated by the Italian critic and activist Eugenio Viola, it showcases more than 60 works made over 11 years.The title installation features 114 hand-cut stencils, representing in Arabic, Persian and Urdu the seven layers that comprise the nafs, or "selves". Like so much of Sabsabi's work, this piece is both geometric and poetic; it draws the viewer in with a tidy sequence of images, yet refuses a singular meaning.Sabsabi believes that identity, that clumsy marker that is sometimes used to quantify the work of marginalised artists, doesn't begin to describe the multitudes we contain.He sees the PICA show as an attempt to negotiate between political reality and spiritual complexity."I wanted to find a point between the spiritual and the political, and show work from the past and present alongside work that hasn't yet been shown, to represent the things that we don't yet have the language to understand — this is part of the Sufi psyche as well," he says, taking the time to carefully choose his words. "I think that for human beings to have a future, we need to stop thinking about ethnicity and geography."I was listening to Professor Marcia Langton, the Aboriginal scholar, who says we don't own the land, the land owns us. That's so enlightened. I don't want to simplify things, but if you get past identity, we're all the same. I don't really believe that purity of ethnicity exists." Sabsabi and his family fled the Lebanese Civil War, relocating to Auburn in Western Sydney in 1978. He was 12 years old. A teacher at Granville Boys High School encouraged his nascent creativity."[Mr Roulston] saw that what I was painting and drawing at the time was interesting enough that I should further develop this thing called art," he says.His other formative influence was hip hop. Acts such as Public Enemy and The Last Poets gave voice to the experience of standing outside the culture. They also gave him the tools — the sample, the remix — that would later shape his sensibility as an artist."Hip hop in the eighties was about social awareness and justice and [it showed me] that creative expression became the best way for my voice to be heard," says Sabsabi.In the 1980s he formed the hip hop crew COD (Count on Damage), along with a group of young Western Sydney rappers. These days, he is part of Eleven, a collective that champions alternative narratives about the Muslim-Australian experience, alongside artists such as Khadim Ali and Hoda Afshar."[Because] I'd come to a new land and witnessed a civil war, I could relate [to hip hop]. From there, I worked with community theatre groups and socially engaged art projects before getting into the visual arts." Sabsabi describes his career as "a slow burn". "But I don't want to dwell too much on the past. We are not the society we were 40 years ago, and in a sense the minority have become majorities," he said."I want to focus on bringing cultural understanding to where we are as an Australian society and where we sit in terms of the global construct of our time." In the post-Trump world, Islamophobic fear-mongering can seem like business as usual. Set against this monolith, Sabsabi's best-known pieces are dazzling tributes to multiplicity, affronts to the notion of a single, shadowy "other". There's 70,000 Veils (2014), a 100-channel installation drawing on ten years of his own archival images and sound. And Syria (2012), a piece that refracts scenes of life in pre-war Damascus through the lens of a kaleidoscope, revealing a country that, despite the geopolitical agendas seeking to co-opt it, is an ordinary, deeply human place. Lately, Sabsabi's work feels quieter, more introspective. Corner, part of the PICA show, features sanjaq, a cloth used for Sufi rituals, that is embroidered with maps that illustrate the movement of the order's ancestors around the world.Bring the Silence, a highlight of this year's Biennale of Sydney, shows worshippers of different faiths placing offerings on the body of a great Sufi saint at a maqam, a sacred burial site in New Delhi. The air around the installation was heavy with the aroma of rose petals.For Sabsabi, spirituality offers a way to explore the universal nature of being human. It also evokes the rhythm that binds us, regardless of where we come from."We all make art because we have something to say," he says. "Sufism is about the pulse, the continuous drum beat, that I really think is the language of the universe. Hip hop is also part of that." "I'm always looking for threads in the human condition and I think that spirituality really is that common thing."Khaled Sabsabi: A Self Portrait shows at PICA until October 7.